     HIGHER SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS
    NATIONAL RESEARCH UNIVERSITY




Claudia M. Landeo, Maxim Nikitin, Sergei Izmalkov

     OPTIMAL CIVIL JUSTICE DESIGN

          Working Paper WP9/2024/02
                   Series WP9
        Research of economics and finance




                    Моscow
                     2024
                                Editor of the Series WP9
                           “Research of economics and finance”
                                      Maxim Nikitin


Claudia M. Landeo, Maxim Nikitin, Sergei Izmalkov.
        Optimal Civil Justice Design [Electronic resource]: Working paper WP9/2024/02/
Claudia M. Landeo, Maxim Nikitin, Sergei Izmalkov; National Research University Higher
School of Economics. – Electronic text data (700 Kb). – Moscow: HSE Publishing House,
2024. – (Series WP9 “Research of economics and financeˮ). – 128 p.

          We study the optimal civil justice design in an environment with two-sided private
information and two players, a victim and an injurer. Using a mechanism design approach,
we identify the properties that must be satisfied by an optimal civil justice system to ensure
access to justice and maximal compensation to the victims at the minimum expected cost of
producing evidence, and characterize the optimal cost-allocation rule. Our main findings are
as follows. First, full revelation of private information requires the production of evidence
in just a subset of legal cases. Second, the American rule where each party pays his own cost
of producing evidence arises endogenously as the socially optimal cost-allocation rule only
under certain conditions. Third, a tort reform that implements the proposed mechanism in
real-world settings is feasible.

        JEL Categories: C72, D86, K10, L23.

      Keywords: Civil Justice; Evidence; Tort Reform; American Rule; English Rule;
Mechanism Design; Two-Sided Private Information; Access to Justice; Victim’s
Compensation; American Civil Justice System.



       Claudia M. Landeo* – University of Alberta, Department of Economics; Henry
Marshall Tory Building 7-25, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H4, Canada; landeo@ualberta.ca
       Maxim Nikitin – International College of Economics and Finance, HSE University;
11 Pokrovskiy Boulevard, Moscow, Russia; mnikitin@hse.ru
       Sergei Izmalkov – New Economic School; 3 Nobel St., Skolkovo, Moscow, Russia;
sizmalkov@nes.ru


        *
          We thank Emiliano Catonini, Tatiana Mayskaya, Peio Zuazo-Garin and Jack Ochs for
insightful discussions and comments. We are grateful for suggestions from participants at the 2024
Stony Brook Center for Game Theory Festival and the HSE University Microeconomic Theory
Workshop.




                                                                   © Claudia M. Landeo, 2024
                                                                      © Maxim Nikitin, 2024
                                                                     © Sergei Izmalkov, 2024
1       Introduction
The U.S. tort system provides $172 billion in gross compensation to the plain-
ti↵s each year. A significant portion of this compensation represents lawyers’
fees and other costs of producing evidence (Engstrom, 2014).1 Although the
production of evidence is a core component of any civil justice system and
the cost of producing evidence influences the actual compensation received
by the victims, previous theoretical work on civil litigation abstracts from
the analysis of the optimal production of evidence.2 Our paper contributes
to the law and economics literature by presenting the first application of
mechanism design to the optimal design of the civil justice system.3 The
fundamental goals of the civil justice system and the optimal production of
evidence are considered in our design. We demonstrate that the optimal
civil justice mechanism minimizes the social welfare loss associated with an
accident by providing access to justice to the victims and maximal compen-
sation to the victims confronting liable injurers at the minimum expected

    1 In civil litigation,   the cost of producing evidence encompasses the litigation costs
and the lawyers’ fees. Litigation costs include the costs associated with the production
of information by each party and the legal discovery process (i.e., the formal process of
exchanging information between parties about the evidence and witnesses that will be
presented at trial). They also include the costs associated with the additional production
of information at trial. Litigation costs represent approximately $5.2 billion (Engstrom,
2014). Lawyers’ fees represent approximately one-third of the plainti↵’s gross or net
compensation.
  2 For seminal work on litigation, see Shavell (1982), Png (1983), Bebchuk (1984), Rein-

ganum and Wilde (1986), Schweizer (1989) and Spier (1992, 1994). For seminal work on
care taking and litigation, see Png (1987) and Landeo et al. (2007). For seminal work on
third-party funding of litigation, see Daughety and Reinganum (2014) and Landeo and
Nikitin (2018).
   3 More specifically, previous literature has applied mechanism-design tools to study

specific civil justice institutions such as the English and American rule for allocation of
litigation costs. In contrast, our paper studies the optimal design of the whole civil justice
system.



                                                3
cost of producing evidence. In contrast to previous work, our comprehen-
sive approach allows us to characterize optimal cost-allocation rules under
an optimal production of evidence. We demonstrate that a tort reform that
implements the proposed mechanism in real-world settings is feasible.
    We study the design of the optimal civil justice system in an environment
characterized by two-sided private information and two players, a victim and
an injurer. Without loss of generality, we focus on direct-revelation civil jus-
tice mechanisms where the victim and the injurer truthfully report their
types (Myerson, 1981, 1979). We identify the properties that must be satis-
fied by an optimal civil justice system to ensure access to justice and maximal
compensation to the victims at the minimum expected cost of producing ev-
idence. Our analysis demonstrates that the cost of producing evidence, the
probability of confronting liable injurers, and the society’s concern regarding
the victim’s compensation determine the optimal civil justice system.4 We
show that, when the optimal production of evidence is implemented, full
revelation of private information is achieved by investigating just a subset of
legal cases. Our findings suggest that the cost-allocation rule applied in the
American civil justice system, where each party pays their own cost of pro-
ducing evidence, is not always socially optimal. The English rule, where the
liable injurer or the victim confronting a non-liable injurer pays all the cost
of producing evidence, is the optimal cost-allocation rule when the likelihood
of liable injurers is moderate and the society’s concern about restoring the
victim’s welfare is sufficiently high. In contrast to inefficient real-world civil
litigation procedures, under the optimal mechanism, all victims get access
to justice, the victims who confront liable injurers get maximal compen-
sation, and evidence is produced at the minimum expected social cost by
investigating just a subset of the legal cases.
    The civil justice system is modeled as follows. We assumes that a neg-

   4 The probability of confronting liable injurers will henceforth be referred to as “prob-

ability of liable injurers”

                                             4
ative event (an accident) caused by the injurer generated damages to the
victim, and that the injurer might be liable or legally responsible for these
damages and hence, might be required to pay compensation to the victim.
The damage level, which is private information, represents the victim’s type.
Our setting allows for a continuum of damage levels. The injurer’s liability,
which is also private information, represents the injurer’s type, non-liable and
liable types. The types are independently distributed, and the distributions
are commonly known.
    A welfare-maximizing direct-revelation civil justice mechanism with a
truth-telling equilibrium can be described as follows. A victim initiates the
civil procedure by deciding to participate in the mechanism and the injurer
is compelled to participate.5 Both parties are required to report their types.
The mechanism produces evidence, perfectly reveals the types, and ends with
transfers from the liable injurers to the victims.
    The social planner’s civil justice design problem consists of a mathemati-
cal optimization problem. The objective function is represented by the social
welfare loss associated with an accident, which includes the expected harm
from an accident, the expected cost of producing evidence, the expected
infringement of the victim’s right of access to justice or right to fully par-
ticipate in the legal system (Landeo and Nikitin, 2018), and the expected
infringement of the right of the victim confronting a liable injurer to be fully
compensated. The players’ constraints ensure the victim’s participation in
the mechanisms and the parties’ truthful report of types.
    We begin our analysis with a benchmark model where the cost of pro-
ducing evidence is paid by the social planner. This simplifying assumption
allows us to introduce the main component of our methodological approach.
We characterize the optimal civil justice system by adopting a two-step ap-
proach. In the first step, we identify the interim probabilities of investigation

   5 These features of the mechanism are aligned with the voluntary participation of the

plainti↵ and the compulsory participation of the defendant in civil litigation.

                                            5
that induce the victim to truthfully reveal his damage type. We show that
the cost of producing evidence and the probability of liable injurers deter-
mine the interim probabilities of investigation. In the second step, we verify
whether the interim probabilities of investigation also induce the liable in-
jurer to truthfully report her liability type, and apply adjustments to the
interim probabilities of investigation. We show that the optimal produc-
tion of evidence involves the investigation of just a subset of legal cases. If
the probability of liable injurers is sufficiently low, irrespective of the vic-
tim’s reported damages, then only legal cases where the injurer reports to be
non-liable might be investigated. If the probability of liable injurers is suffi-
ciently high, then legal cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable and
the victim reports relatively low damages and legal cases where the injurer
reports to be liable and the victim reports relatively high damages might be
investigated.
   We then demonstrate that a tort reform that implements the optimal
mechanism in real-world settings is feasible. The proposed tort reform con-
sists of adding a first stage, an “Information-Revelation Stage” to the cur-
rent civil litigation procedures. We model civil litigation using a game-
theoretic setting with two-sided incomplete information and three Bayesian
risk-neutral players, a social planner, a plainti↵ (victim) and a defendant (in-
jurer). In the first stage, the Information-Revelation Stage, the social planner
chooses a direct-revelation mechanism involving incentives to the plainti↵ to
file a lawsuit (initiate the mechanism) and incentives to the plainti↵ and de-
fendant to truthfully report their types. The social planner then informs the
reported types to the plainti↵ and the defendant, and a standard two-stage
litigation game starts. The plainti↵ makes a take-it-or-leave-it settlement of-
fer to the defendant, and the defendant decides whether to accept the o↵er.
In case of acceptance, the legal case is settled out of court; otherwise, a costly
trial occurs. We show that a direct-revelation mechanism with a truth-telling
equilibrium exists in this environment, and that this mechanism is the same

                                        6
as the optimal mechanism of the benchmark model. In equilibrium, perfect
revelation of private information is achieved by producing evidence on just
a subset of legal cases. All legal cases are settled out of court and hence, the
likelihood of trial and the corresponding litigation costs are minimized.
   Next, we study the optimal civil justice design with endogenous alloca-
tion of the cost of producing evidence between the victim and the injurer.
The assumption that the social planner pays the cost of producing evidence
is relaxed. In contrast to the previous literature, the design of cost-allocation
rules takes into account the optimal production of evidence. We show that
our main qualitative findings regarding the design of the optimal production
of evidence also hold in this environment. New insight regarding the appli-
cation of the two most common cost-allocation institutions, the English and
the American rules, are derived. Under the English rule, the liable injurer
or the victim confronting a non-liable injurer pays all the cost of producing
evidence. Under the American rule, which is applied in the American civil
justice system, each party pays her own cost of producing evidence. We show
that the American rule is not always socially optimal. When the likelihood of
liable injurers is moderate and the society’s concern regarding the victim’s
compensation is sufficiently high, the English rule is the socially-optimal
rule. Our analysis underscores the robustness of our benchmark model find-
ings regarding the optimal production of evidence, and the tractability of
our framework to study more complex civil justice systems.
   Important policy implications are derived from our paper. Our analysis
demonstrates that the optimal civil justice mechanism shares some of the
features present in the American civil litigation system but also underscores
other relevant factors for the design of optimal civil justice institutions. In
contrast to the American civil justice system where the production of evi-
dence occurs in all the legal cases that are filed, we show that, in the op-
timal civil justice system, the truthful revelation of private information is
achieved by devoting society’s resources to the investigation of only a sub-

                                       7
set of legal cases. When the production of evidence is optimal, the social
planner achieves the core goal of providing access to justice and maximal
compensation to the victims at the minimum cost of producing evidence.
The extension to our benchmark model provides additional policy implica-
tions. When the allocation of the cost of producing evidence is endogenous,
we demonstrate that the optimal cost allocation does not always correspond
to the cost-allocation rule applied in the American civil justice system.
    The closest to our work is the very small theoretical literature on the
design of civil litigation institutions using a mechanism-design approach.6
Schweizer (1989) studies a game-theoretic model of litigation with two-sided
incomplete information. Mechanism-design tools are also used to explore
whether the inefficient equilibrium under which litigation is not avoided with
certainty is due to the take-it-or-leave-it bargaining procedure adopted in the
game-theoretic model. The framework assumes that the litigants’ outside op-
tion is to proceed to trial where the private information is perfectly revealed
and the English rule for cost allocation is applied. The findings suggest that
there are more important factors that preclude efficiency, and that the effi-
cient outcome does not always exist. Spier (1994) analyzes the e↵ects of Rule
68 for cost allocation between a plainti↵ and a defendant on the likelihood
of out-of-court settlement using a game-theoretic model of one-sided incom-
plete information.7 Mechanism design is then applied to a two-sided private
information setting to study the optimal cost-allocation rule that maximizes
the probability of settlement. The framework assumes that the litigants’
outside option is to go to trial, where the private information is perfectly
revealed and the American rule for cost-allocation is applied. The results

   6 For brevity, this section summarizes only the papers that are closely related to our

work.
  7 Under Rule 68, cost allocation depends on the pretrial settlement o↵ers. When a

litigant rejects an out-of-court settlement o↵er and gets a less favorable judgment at trial,
she must compensate the other litigant for certain costs incurred after the o↵er was made.



                                             8
suggest that the optimal rule for the allocation of the pretrial litigation costs
resembles Rule 68.
    Klement and Neeman (2005) investigate the optimal cost-allocation rule
that minimizes the rate of litigation subject to maintaining deterrence using
one-sided private-information framework and a mechanism-design approach.
This paper also assumes that the litigants’ outside option is to proceed to
trial and that the defendant’s private information is perfectly revealed at
trial. Their findings suggest that the optimal cost-allocation mechanism
involves instruments that resemble the English rule. Demougin and Fluet
(2006) use a mechanism-design approach to study the optimal standard of
proof rule for determining negligence that maximizes deterrence, and find
that “the more-likely-than-not” rule induces maximal care-taking incentives
for potential injurers.8
    These papers di↵er significantly from our work. Schweizer’s (1989) appli-
cation of mechanism design is limited to exploring a specific outcome asso-
ciated with his game-theoretic environment. The focus of Spier (1994) and
Klement and Neeman (2005) is on the design of cost-allocation rules that
maximize the likelihood of out-of-court settlement. Demougin and Fluet’s
(2006) paper is centered on the design of optimal standard of evidence rules.
In contrast to our work, the design of civil justice institutions in these pa-
pers does not consider the optimal production of evidence. Importantly,
these previous applications of mechanism design abstract from the funda-
mental goals of the civil justice system of providing access to justice and full
compensation to the victims confronting liable injurers.
    Another strand of this literature is related to the application of mecha-
nism design to the design of criminal law institutions. Silva (2019) studies
truth-telling mechanisms for groups of suspects where only one is guilty, and

   8 Under the “more-likely-than-not” rule, a defendant is considered liable when the court

determines that it is “more likely than not” that she did not fulfill the social standard of
care. A degree of certainty above 50% is generally applied.

                                             9
finds that the optimal mechanism involves leniency for confession before in-
vestigation. Siegel and Strulovici (2023) investigate optimal deterrence with
direct-revelation mechanisms for harmful acts committed by single injurers.
They study two deterrence settings, and demonstrate that the optimal mech-
anisms resemble criminal law institutions such as plea bargaining and binary
verdicts. None of these papers study optimal civil justice institutions.
   Our work is also connected to the theoretical literature on the economic
analysis of civil litigation (Shavell 1982, Bebchuk 1984, Reinganum and
Wilde 1986, Png 1987, Spier 1992, Landeo et al. 2007). Applied economic
models of pretrial settlement bargaining have been developed to explain the
sources of negotiation breakdown in civil litigation and to propose reforms
aimed at improving the efficiency of civil litigation institutions. Primarily
game theory has influenced these studies. A limitation of this approach is
that the e↵ectiveness of a specific litigation institution might be a↵ected by
the features of the bargaining model. In particular, the properties of the
litigation institution are sensitive to the timing of the game. Importantly,
the design of the litigation institutions does not take into account the opti-
mal production of evidence. We extend this literature by providing the first
general application of mechanism design to the study of optimal civil justice
institutions under an optimal production of evidence.
   The rest of the article is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the main
assumptions and notation used in the benchmark model, and describes the
social planner’s civil justice design problem. Section 3 presents the analysis
of the benchmark model, shows that the goals of the civil justice system can
be achieved by producing evidence in just a subset of legal cases, and provides
a real-world application. Section 4 studies the optimal civil justice design
under endogenous allocation of the cost of producing evidence between the
injurer and the victim, and shows that the cost-allocation rule applied in
the American civil justice system is not always socially optimal. Section 5
provides concluding remarks. Formal proofs are presented in the Appendices.

                                      10
2      Civil Justice System
This section introduces the stylized civil justice system studied in this paper.
We presents the basic notation, describe the direct-revelation civil justice
mechanism with a truth-telling equilibrium, and discusses the social plan-
ner’s civil justice design problem.


2.1      Basic Notation
Our framework involves two-sided private information and two risk-neutral
players, a victim V and an injurer I. A negative event (an accident) caused
by the injurer generated damages A to the victim, and that the injurer
might be liable or legally responsible for these damages and hence, might
be required to pay compensation to the victim. Damages A 2 [0, Ā] rep-
resent the victim’s type, where A = 0 and A = Ā refer to the lowest and
highest damages experienced by the victim, respectively. A is distributed
with probability density function g(A) and cumulative distribution function
G(A), and g(A) > 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Liability L 2 {0, 1} represents the injurer’s
type, where L = 0 denotes a non-liable type and L = 1 denotes a liable type.
The probability of liable injurers is p 2 (0, 1). The victim’s and the injurer’s
types are private information and the distributions of types are commonly
known. The victim’s and injurer’s types are stochastically independent.9
     The social planner’s goal is to ensure the victim’s access to justice or par-
ticipation in the civil justice system (Landeo and Nikitin, 2018) and maximal
compensation to the victims confronting liable injurers.10 The social plan-
ner’s adjudication of compensation to the victim is based on the injurer’s
liability type. We denote this criterion as the social planner’s adjudication
criterion. For any realization of A 2 [0, Ā], if the injurer is liable (L = 1),

    9 Our findings also hold in environments with non-independent types that do not allow

the social planner to use one player’s information to learn about the other player’s type.
  10 See Section 2.3.2 for details about the social welfare loss function.



                                           11
then the victim should be compensated with transfer A; otherwise, no com-
pensation should be granted.11 The victim and the injurer have limited
financial resources. We denote the victim’s and the injurer’s financial re-
sources as W V > 0 and W I > Ā.12
    The social planner’s problem is derived from the fact that she does not
know the victim’s and the injurer’s types. The optimal civil justice design
should allow the social planner to accomplish her goal by revealing the par-
ties’ types at the minimum social cost of producing evidence.


2.2     Civil Justice Mechanisms
Without loss of generality, we focus our attention on a special class of civil
justice mechanisms, the direct-revelation civil justice mechanisms with a
truth-telling equilibrium (Myerson, 1981, 1979). This mechanism can be
described as follows. The victim initiates the civil procedure by deciding to
participate in the mechanism and the injurer is compelled to participate.13 If
the victim decides to participate, both parties are required to simultaneously
and confidentially report their types, (rV , rI ) to the social planner, where
rV 2 [0, Ā] and rI 2 {0, 1} denote the victim’s and the injurer’s reports,
respectively.
    Although the players’ types are private information, the social planner
can produce evidence at a cost to investigate the reported types. We assume
that the technology allows the social planner to perfectly learn the types.
The costly technology for the production of evidence is described by a pair

  11 In other words, we implicitly assume that the social planner uses an exogenous social

standard of care for liability determination.
  12 The last assumption indicates that although the injurer has limited financial resources,

his financial resources suffice to compensate a victim of type A 2 [0, Ā], i.e., he is not
judgment proof.
  13 These features of the mechanism are aligned with the voluntary participation of the

plainti↵ and the compulsory participation of the defendant in civil litigation.



                                             12
of cost functions. We denote C0 (A) as the cost of producing evidence when
the injurer’s type is non-liable and the victim’s type is A, and C1 (A) as the
cost of producing evidence when the injurer’s type is liable and the victim’s
                                                                        i (A)
type is A.14 We assume that Ci (0) > 0 (i = 0, 1), and 8A 2 [0, Ā], @C@A     >0
(i = 0, 1).15 We allow for C0 (A)            C1 (A) and C0 (A) < C1 (A). We denote
q(rV , rI ) as the probability of investigation.
     We assume that the social planner can also impose a fine f i 2 [0, f¯i ]
when party i’s report ri is found to be untruthful (i = I, V ). Given that the
victim and the injurer have limited financial resources, f¯i  W i (i = V, I).
The transfers and fines that result from the production of evidence are as
follows. First, when the reports are not investigated, the injurer transfers rV
to the victim if rI = 1. Second, when the reports are investigated and found
to be truthful (rV = A and rI = L), the injurer transfers rV to the victim
if rI = 1. Third, when the reports are investigated and the injurer’s report
is found to be untruthful (rI 6= L), the injurer pays fine f I 2 [0, f¯I ] to the
social planner, and the social planner transfers rV to the victim if L = 1.16
Fourth, when the reports are investigated and the victim’s report is found
to be untruthful (rV 6= A), the victim does not receive any transfers and
pays fine f V 2 [0, f¯V ] to the social planner.17 Fifth, when the reports are

  14 In Section 3, the benchmark model, we assume that the cost of producing evidence

is paid by the social planner. In Section 4, we endogenize the allocation of the cost of
producing evidence between the injurer and the victim.
  15 The victim has an incentive to untruthfully report higher damages to get higher

compensation. As a result of the higher investigation complexity when damages are higher,
stronger investigation e↵orts and higher costs might be required.
  16 For mathematical tractability, the rule consists of just imposing a fine to the untruthful

injurer. We show that in equilibrium, the fine is the maximal, f¯I . Given that the injurer
is financially constrained, f¯I = W I . Alternatively, we could define the maximal fine as
WI     A, charge this fine to the liable injurer and require the liable injurer to pay the
compensation A. Notice that the two rules produce the same incentive to the injurer in
terms of expected loss, and hence, are equivalent.
  17 The component of the rule consisting on not providing any compensation to the victim




                                              13
investigated and the victim’s and injurer’s reports are found to be untruthful
(rV 6= A and rI 6= L), the victim does not receive any transfers, and the
victim and the injurer pay fines f V 2 [0, f¯V ] and f I 2 [0, f¯I ] to the social
planner.
    Two types of constraints must be imposed to ensure participation in
the mechanism and truthful reports: individual-rationality constraints and
incentive-compatibility constraints. To simplify the notation, we denote the
probability of investigation q(rV , rI ) when the injurer reports to be non-
liable and the victim reports to be type A as q0 (A) 2 [0, 1], and the proba-
bility of investigation q(rV , rI ) when the injurer reports to be liable and the
victim reports to be type A as q1 (A) 2 [0, 1].18 First, a victim’s individual-
rationality constraint is required to ensure that the victim will be willing
to participate in the civil justice mechanism. Second, victim’s and injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraints are required to ensure that the players
will be willing to truthfully report their types.19

    In sum, in the class of direct-revelation civil justice mechanisms with a
truth-telling equilibrium, the victim initiates the civil procedure by deciding
to participate in the mechanism, the injurer is compelled to participate, and
both parties are required to report their types to the social planner. The
mechanism produces evidence at a cost, perfectly reveals the types, and ends
with transfers from the liable injurers to the victims.

allows the social planner to strengthen the incentives to truthful revelation of the victim’s
types without increasing the expected social cost.
  18 For brevity, the lemmas are included in Appendix A.
  19 In other words, truthful reports must be a Bayesian Nash Equilibrium in the civil

justice game. See Section 2.3.1 for details about the players’ constraints.




                                             14
2.3      Social Planner’s Civil Justice Design Problem
The social planner’s problem of the design of the civil justice mechanism
consists of a mathematical optimization problem. The social planner should
choose the direct-revelation civil justice mechanisms with a truth-telling
equilibrium that minimizes the social welfare loss function SW L associated
with an accident. Given that the class of direct-revelation mechanisms with
a truth-telling equilibrium requires the satisfaction of constraints (1) and
(2), the social planner’s optimization problem should be expressed in terms
of the actual types.
    The social welfare loss function SW L consists of several components.
First, it includes the social welfare loss associated with the expected harm
                                  R Ā
from an accident H = E[A] = 0 Ag(A)dA. Second, it includes the social
welfare loss associated with the expected cost of producing evidence (i.e.,
expected cost of investigation) E[C(A)] =
R Ā
 0
     [pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1 p)q0 (A)C0 (A)] g(A)dA. Third, it includes the social
welfare loss associated with the expected infringement of the victim’s right
                                              R Ā
of access to justice ✓E[⌘(A)], where E[⌘(A)] = 0 ⌘(A)g(A)dA represents the
mass of victims that do not trigger the mechanism, i.e., do not get “Access
to Justice,” and ✓        0 represents the society’s concern regarding the victims’
right of access to justice (Landeo and Nikitin, 2018).20 Fourth, it includes
the social loss associated with the expected infringement of the right of the
victim confronting liable injurers to be fully compensated ⇤E[⇠(A)], where
E[⇠(A)]       0 represents the magnitude of undercompensation of the victim
confronting liable injurers across victim’s types, and ⇤                 0 represents the
society’s concern regarding restoring the welfare of victims confronting liable

  20 In our environment, participation in the mechanism represents “Access to Justice”

for victims. In the context of civil litigation, “access to justice” refers to the victim’s
ability to fully participate in the legal system (by filing a lawsuit agains the injurer, and
if necessary, by bringing the case to trial). See Landeo and Nikitin (2018) for a formal
definition of access to justice.

                                             15
injurers to the level they experienced before the accident.

    Definition 1. The social welfare loss function SW L is defined as follows.

                   SW L = H + E[C(A)] + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
          Z Ā               Z Ā
      =          Ag(d)dA +           [pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1     p)q0 (A)C0 (A)] g(A)dA+
           0                    0
                           Z Ā                      Z Ā
                      +✓            ⌘(A)g(A)dA + ⇤          ⇠(A)g(A)dA.
                            0                         0
    The social planner’s problem is to minimize the SW L by choosing the
optimal probabilities of investigation, q0 (A) and q1 (A), subject to the vic-
tim’s and injurer’s constraints. iIntuitively, the social planner’s goal is to
provide access to justice to the victim and restore the welfare of the victim
confronting liable injurers to the level she experienced before the accident
by inducing the victim and the injurer to truthfully reveal their private in-
formation at the minimum cost of producing evidence.


3     Benchmark Model
We begin our analysis by assuming that the social planner pays the cost of
producing evidence. This simplified assumption allows us to introduce the
main component of our methodological approach. (In Section 4, we study
the optimal civil justice with endogenous allocation of the cost of producing
evidence between the victim and the injurer, and characterizing the optimal
cost-allocation rule.)


3.1       Players’ Constraints
The set of players’s constraint first includes the victim’s individual-rationality
(participation) constraint, pA              0 8A 2 [0, Ā], which is trivially satisfied
8A 2 [0, Ā]. Hence, the victim has always an incentive to participate and the
                                               16
mechanism is always triggered.21 Second, it includes the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint. Lemma 1 in Appendix A shows that it suffices to
consider the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint for the lowest dam-
age type, A = 0: the victim’s expected payo↵ when she truthfully reports her
type should be greater than or equal to her expected payo↵ when she untruth-
fully reports a higher type: 0 p(1 q1 (A0 ))A0 [pq1 (A0 ) + (1 p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V
8A0 2 [0, Ā]. This constraint should hold 8A0 2 [0, Ā]. Hence, the victim’s
incentive-compatibility constraint is equal to: 8A 2 [0, Ā],

                  [pq1 (A) + (1             p)q0 (A)]f¯V     p(1   q1 (A))A.         (1)

Third, it includes the the incentive-compatibility constraints for the liable
and non-liable injurers: the injurer’s expected loss when he truthfully re-
ports his type should be lower than or equal to his expected loss when
she untruthfully reports his type. Lemma 2 shows that the liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint is equal to:
                      Z Ā                          Z Ā
                             Ag(A)dA  f¯I                 q0 (A)g(A)dA.             (2)
                        0                              0

Finally, the non-liable injurer’s incentive compatibility constraint is equal to:
                            Z Ā
                                   ⇥                             ⇤
                  0                    (1    q1 (A))A + q1 (A)f I g(A)dA,
                             0

which is trivially satisfied 8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8f I 2 [0, f¯I ]. Hence, the non-liable
injurer will always truthfully report his type. As demonstrated in Appendix
A (Lemmas 1 and 2), the application of maximal fines f¯V and f¯I allows the
social planner to save resources on investigation. Given that the victim and
the injurer have limited financial resources, f¯V = W V and f¯I = W I .22

  21 Remember that, when the victim triggers the mechanism, the injurer is compelled to

participate. Hence, an injurer’s individual-rationality constraint is not required.
  22 Remember that the injurer and the victim are financially constrained, and that W I >

Ā and W V > 0, by assumption. If f¯V and f¯I could go to +1, the incentive-compatibility

                                                  17
3.2     Social Planner’s Civil Justice Design Problem
Note first that the term H is exogenous. Second, given that the victim’s
individual-rationality constraint is trivially satisfied for A 2 [0, Ā], the victim
always has an incentive to trigger the mechanism, i.e., the victim always fully
participates in the legal system. As a consequence, the victim always gets
access to justice and hence, E[⌘(A)] = 0. Third, given that the social planner
pays the cost of producing evidence, the victims confronting liable injurers
are fully compensated and their welfare is restored and hence, E[⇠(A)] = 0.23
    Hence, the social planner’s problem is reduced to minimize the expected
cost of producing evidence E[C(A)]:
                 ⇢ Z Ā
          min           [pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1          p)q0 (A)C0 (A)] g(A)dA
        q0 (A),q1 (A)   0

subject to the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1), [pq1 (A) + (1
p)q0 (A)]f¯V    p(1 q1 (A))A 8A 2 [0, Ā], the liable injurer’s incentive-
                               R Ā                R Ā
compatibility constraint (2), 0 Ag(A)dA  f¯I 0 q0 (A)g(A)dA, and the
feasibility constraints for the probabilities of investigation, 0  qi (A)  1
(i = 0, 1).

    We adopt a two-step approach to characterize the optimal probabilities of
investigation. In the first step, we characterize the interim probabilities of in-
vestigation q0 (A) and q1 (A) that satisfy the victim’s incentive-compatibility

constraints (1) and (2) would be satisfied for q0 (A) and q1 (A) approaching zero. In other
words, when the victim and the injurer have unlimited financial resources, the truthful
revelation of types is achieved at zero social cost of producing evidence.
                             R
  23 Formally, E[⇠(A)] = p Ā ↵ q (A)C (A)g(A)dA, where ↵ represents the victim’s
                               0  1 1      1                      1
share of the cost of producing evidence when the injurer reports to be liable. Given
that the social planner pays the cost of producing evidence, ↵1 = 0. In Section 6, we
study the optimal allocation of the cost of producing evidence. We use an extension of
our benchmark model consisting on endogenizing the allocation of the cost of producing
evidence. In this setting, the victim might share the cost of producing evidence, ↵1     0.
As a result, the victim might not be fully compensated and hence, E[⇠(A)]      0.

                                            18
constraint (1) and the feasibility constraints for the probability of investi-
gation. In the second step, we verify whether the interim probability of
investigation q0 (A) also satisfies the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint (2). If not, adjustments to the interim probabilities of investiga-
tion q0 (A) and q1 (A) are implemented.24 The next sections outline the main
steps in the characterization of the optimal production of evidence. Formal
proofs and description of the numerical example are presented in Appendices
A and B.


3.3     Interim Probabilities of Investigation: Step 1
We characterize the interim probabilities of investigation q0 (A) and q1 (A)
that satisfy the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1) and feasibility
constraints for the probabilities of investigation, 0  qi (A)  1 (i = 0, 1).25

3.3.1    Analysis of Type-A Victim

The social planner’s problem involves optimization across victim’s types.
Given that the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint is specified for a
particular type A, it is appropriate to start the analysis with the social
planner’s optimization problem for an individual type-A victim.
    Denote the expected cost of producing evidence associated with a type-A
victim as E[C] = pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1               p)q0 (A)C0 (A). The social planner’s
problem is:

                    min          {pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1    p)q0 (A)C0 (A)}
                 q0 (A),q1 (A)


  24 Mathematically, the social planner’s problem consists of a linear programming prob-

lem, i.e., the objective function and the constraints are linear (Vohra, 2011). The order
of the analysis of linear constraints does not a↵ect the solution of the problem.
  25 For brevity, the main text of the paper only includes the main propositions. The

additional propositions, lemmas and claims are included in Appendix A.



                                             19
subject to the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1) and the feasibil-
ity constraints 0  qi (A)  1 (i = 0, 1). Claim 1 in Appendix A shows that
the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint holds as an equality. Hence,
the victim’s incentive compatibility constraint (1) becomes:

                      (pf¯V + pA)q1 (A) + (1         p)f¯V q0 (A) = pA.                   (3)

Solving for q0 (A):
                                  p(f¯V + A)             pA
                      q0 (A) =               q1 (A) +          .
                                  (1 p)f¯V            (1 p)f¯V
Therefore,
                 1
         E[C] = ¯V {q1 [pC1 (A)f¯V             pC0 (A)(f¯V + A)] + pAC0 (A)}
                f
and
                      @E[C]     [pC1 (A)f¯V          pC0 (A)(f¯V + A)]
                              =                                        .
                      @q1 (A)                        f¯V
                 ¯V          ¯V
When [pC1 (A)f pC f¯V
                      0 (A)(f +A)]
                                    < 0, which is equivalent to A > C      1 (A)
                                                                          C0 (A)
                                   ¯V           ¯V
1 f¯V , @E[C] < 0; when [pC1 (A)f pC
       @q1 (A)                         ¯V
                                          0 (A)(f +A)]
                                           f
                                                       = 0, which is equivalent to
                                                                 ¯V   pC0 (A)(f¯V +A)]
A =    C1 (A)
       C0 (A)  1 f¯V , @q
                       @E[C]
                          1 (A)
                                = 0; and, when [pC1 (A)f              f¯V
                                                                                         > 0,
which is equivalent to A < C1 (A) 1 f¯V , @E[C] > 0.
                                  C0 (A)               @q1 (A)
   The interim probabilities of investigation for type-A victim should also
satisfy the feasibility constraints 0  qi (A)  1 (i = 0, 1). Suppose that
A > C1 (A) 1 f¯V and therefore, @E[C] < 0. The interim q1 (A) is a corner
      C0 (A)                               @q1 (A)
solution with q1 (A) taking the maximal value constrained by the feasibil-
ity constraint q1 (A)  1 and the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint
holding as an equality, equation (3). Solving for q1 (A), we get q1 (A) =
    1                ¯V
      ¯V [pA (1 p)f q0 (A)]. q1 (A) takes the maximal value when q0 (A) =
 pA+pf
0: q1 (A) = A+Af¯V . Hence, the interim probabilities of investigation for a vic-
tim of type A are q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = A+Af¯V < 1.
   Suppose that A = C1 (A) 1 f¯V and therefore,
                             C0 (A)
                                                                   @E[C]
                                                               = 0. Claim 2
                                                                   @q1 (A)
shows that, when A =         C1 (A) ¯ V
                                 1 f , the interim probabilities of investiga-
                             C0 (A)
                                                                ⇥             ⇤
tion q0 (A) and q1 (A) involve infinitely many values, q0 (A) 2 0, 1 p p f¯AV

                                               20
             ⇥        ⇤
and q1 (A) 2 0, A+Af¯V .26 We consider here the minimum value for q0 (A)
and the corresponding q1 (A) such that constraint (3) and the feasibility con-
straints are satisfied. Hence, the interim probabilities of investigation for a
victim of type A are q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = A+Af¯V < 1.
    Suppose now that A < C1 (A) 1 f¯V and therefore,
                                      C0 (A)
                                                                      @E[C]
                                                                      @q1 (A)   > 0. The
interim q1 (A) is a corner solution with q1 (A) taking the minimal value con-
strained by the feasibility constraint q1 (A)             0 and equation (3). We need
to check whether q1 (A) = 0 satisfies the victim’s incentive-compatibility
constraint. Evaluating equation (3) at q1 (A) = 0 and solving for q0 (A)
                           p   A
yields q0 (A) =              We also need to verify whether q0 (A) satisfies
                          1 p f¯V .
the feasibility constraints. Define A0 (p) ⌘ 1 p f¯V . Claim 4 verifies that
                                                        p
                p  A                                 1 p ¯V
q0 (A) =      1 p f¯V        1 only when A          p    f    = A0 (p). Hence, two
                                                         0
mutually-exclusive cases are possible. If A  A (p), then the interim prob-
                                                 p   A
abilities of investigation are q0 (A) =         1 p f¯V   and q1 (A) = 0. If A > A0 (p),
then q0 (A) = 1. The minimal feasible q1 (A) is the one that corresponds
to q0 (A) = 1. Evaluating equation (3) at q0 (A) = 1 and solving for q1 (A)
                        f¯V
yields q1 (A) = 1   p(f¯V +A)
                              . Hence, the interim probabilities of investiga-
                                           ¯V
tion are q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1 p(f¯fV +A) . The feasibility constraints
0  q1 (A)  1 hold 8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8p 2 (0, 1).
    Proposition 1 characterizes the interim probabilities of investigation.

    Proposition 1. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). The interim probabilities of investi-
gation for a victim of type A are as follows. (1) If A C1 (A)
                                                                1 f¯V , then
                                                                    C0 (A)
q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A . (2) If A <         C1 (A)
                                                    C0 (A)   1 f¯V and A       1 p
                                                                                 p    f¯V =
A0 (p), then q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0. (3) If A <           C1 (A)
                                                                      C0 (A)    1 f¯V   and
                                                                        f¯V
A > 1 p f¯V = A0 (p), then q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1
         p                                                          p(f¯V +A)
                                                                              .

  26 Claim 2 also shows that the optimal mechanism is not unique for every p-value when

p is sufficiently high.




                                               21
3.3.2        Analysis Across Victim’s Types

We now characterize the interim probabilities of investigation across victim’s
types. If C0 (A)         C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], then
                                      ✓             ◆
                                        C1 (A)
                                 A                 1 f¯V                                  (4)
                                        C0 (A)

is satisfied 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Hence, by Proposition 1, the social planner incen-
tivizes the victim only through q1 (A) across victim’s types. We denote this
case as Environment 1. If C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and Ā < C1 (A) 1 f¯V   C0 (A)
8A 2 [0, Ā], then condition (4) is never satisfied. Hence, by Proposition 1,
the social planner incentivizes the victim through q0 (A) across victim’s types.
We denote this case as Environment 2.27
   Consider first Environment 1. Suppose C0 (A)     C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā].
Therefore, condition A   C1 (A)   ¯V
                                1 f is satisfied 8A 2 [0, Ā]. By Proposi-
                                   C0 (A)
tion 1, the interim probabilities of investigation are: q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) =
   A
f¯V +A
         < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā]. The interim probabilities of investigation hold 8
p 2 (0, 1). Consider now Environment 2. Suppose C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2
[0, Ā] and Ā < C1 (A) 1 f¯V . Therefore, condition A
                       C0 (A)
                                                       C1 (A)
                                                              1 f¯V is    C0 (A)
never satisfied. By Proposition 1, if A             1 p
                                                      p    f¯V = A0 (p), then the interim
probabilities of investigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV  1 and q1 (A) = 0; if
A > 1 p f¯V = A0 (p), then the interim probabilities of investigation are
          p
                                       f¯V
q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1           p(A+f¯V )
                                              < 1.
                        ¯V
      Define p0 ⌘ f¯Vf +Ā . By Claim 5, if p  p0 , then Ā  A0 (p). Therefore,
every A 2 [0, Ā] is lower than or equal to A0 (p). If p > p0 , then Ā > A0 (p).
Therefore, A 2 [0, Ā] can be greater than or lower than A0 (p). Hence,

                                                                                 C1 (A)
  27 Claim 3 shows that there are multiple cases. The relationship among Ā,
                                                                                 C0 (A)
                                                                                       1 f¯V
       1 p
and     p
              f¯V determines multiple combinations of cases and hence, multiple states of the
world or environments. We study Case 2(b)i. here. This case occurs when C0 (A) < C1 (A)
                                 C (A)               C1 (A)
8A 2 [0, Ā], Ā < min 1 p f¯V , 1
                             p
                                        1 f¯V and
                                     C0 (A)
                                                              1 f¯V  1 p f¯V . Formal
                                                           C0 (A)            p
analysis of the other environments is available from the authors upon request.

                                              22
two mutually-exclusive p-segments are possible. p-Segment 1: If p 2 [0, p0 ],
                                                                      p   A
then the interim probabilities of investigation are q0 (A) =         1 p f¯V     1
                                                            0
and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. p-Segment 2: If p 2 (p , 1], then the interim
probabilities of investigation are as follows. If A  A0 (p), then q0 (A) =
  p    A                               0
 1 p f¯V  1 and q1 (A) = 0. If A > A (p), then q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1
   ¯
   f V

p(A+f¯V )
          > 0. Claims 4 and 6 verify that the feasibility constraint q0 (A)  1
is satisfied. It simple to show that the feasibility constraints q0 (A)        0 and
0  q1 (A)  1 are also satisfied.
   Proposition 2 characterizes the interim probabilities of verification across
victim’s types for Environments 1 and 2. It also shows that Environment 2
encompasses two p-segments, p-Segment 1 and p-Segment 2.

   Proposition 2. The interim probabilities of investigation for Environ-
ments 1 and 2 across victim’s types are as follows.

  1. Environment 1: If C0 (A)            C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the interim
      probabilities of investigation are: q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1
      8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8p 2 (0, 1).

  2. Environment 2: If C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and Ā < C          1 (A)
                                                                       C0 (A)
     1 f¯V 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the interim probabilities of investigation are as
      follows. (a) p-Segment 1: If p 2 (0, p0 ], then the interim probabilities of
                                       p   A
      investigation are q0 (A) =      1 p f¯V   and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. (b) p-
                           0
      Segment 2: If p 2 (p , 1), then the interim probabilities of investigation
                     p   A                           0
      are q0 (A) =  1 p f¯V and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, A (p)], and q0 (A) = 1
                         f¯V
      and q1 (A) = 1 p(A+   f¯V )
                                  8A 2 (A0 (p), Ā].

   Intuitively, to incentivize the victim to truthfully reveal her type while
economizing on investigation costs, the social planner should take into ac-
count the cost of producing evidence, the likelihood of liable injurers and the
victim’s damages.


                                         23
3.4    Optimal Production of Evidence: Step 2
This section verifies whether the interim probabilities of investigation also
satisfy the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint (2). If not, ad-
justments to the interim probabilities of investigation are implemented. The
probabilities of investigation that satisfy constraints (1) and (2) are denoted
as optimal probabilities of investigation and represent the optimal produc-
tion of evidence.
   As discussed in the Appendix, there are two possible procedures to adjust
the interim probabilities of investigation, Procedures 1 and 2. Procedure 1
consists of an increase in q0 (A) and a decrease in q1 (A) until the liable in-
jurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint (2) is satisfied as an equality while
keeping the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1) satisfied as an
equality. Procedure 2 consists of an increase in q0 (A) without decreasing
q1 (A) until the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied
as an equality while keeping the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint
(1) satisfied. As stated in Corollary 1, Procedures 1 and 2 can be applied
to Environment 1, and only Procedure 2 can be applied in Environment 2.
Propositions 3 and 4 show that the application of adjustment procedures
should start at the lowest A, and that Procedure 1 is more efficient that
Procedure 2 and hence, when both procedures can be applied, Procedure 1
should be applied first.
   For brevity, only the analysis of Environment 1 will be presented here.
(The analysis for Environment 2 is presented in the Appendix.) Next, we
identify the p-segments and identify the procedures that should be applied.
Our findings suggest that there are three states of the world in each Envi-
ronment involving low, moderate and high probabilities of liable injurers p.
We then implement the adjustment procedures, and characterize the optimal
production of evidence for each state of the world. Our analysis demonstrates
that complete revelation of private information is achieved by focusing the


                                       24
society’s investigation e↵orts on just a subset of legal cases.28
   Remember that Environment 1 occurs when C0 (A)                   C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā].
We characterize the optimal probabilities of investigation. We first verify
whether the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint (2) is satisfied:
                      Z Ā                   Z Ā
                             Ag(A)dA  f¯I          q0 (A)g(A)dA.                       (2)
                        0                      0

As Proposition 2 states, the interim probabilities of investigation are: 8p 2
(0, 1) and 8A 2 [0, Ā], q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A . Given that q0 (A) = 0
8A 2 [0, Ā], constraint (2) is never satisfied. Hence, the application of an
adjustment procedure to increase q0 (A) is required. Given that q1 (A) > 0
8A 2 [0, Ā], Procedure 1, the most efficient procedure, can be implemented
across A-values. Procedure 1 starts from the lowest values of A. The so-
cial planner increases q0 (A) and reduces q1 (A) while keeping the victim’s
incentive-compatibility constraint (1) satisfied as an equality. The proce-
dure continues until the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
(2) is satisfied as an equality. If the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint is still not satisfied after exhausting the implementation of Pro-
cedure 1, then Procedure 2 should be implemented.
                                                                               p   A
   Claim 4 in Appendix A shows that, 8p 2 (0, 1), q0 (A) =                    1 p f¯V    
                  0                                  0                   0
1 () A  A (A). By Claim 5, Ā > A (p) () p > p . By Claim
               p   A
6, q0 (A) =   1 p f¯V        1 8A 2 [0, Ā] if p  p0 . Therefore, to satisfy the
feasibility constraint q0 (A)  1, Procedure 1 can be exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā]
only when p  p0 . The next corollary summarizes this result.

   Corollary 3. When p  p0 , the application of Procedure 1 can be ex-
hausted 8A 2 [0, Ā]. When p > p0 , the implementation of Procedure 1 can
be exhausted only 8A 2 [0, A0 (p)].

 28 For brevity, the main text of the paper only includes the propositions.   The lemmas
and claims are included in Appendix A.


                                          25
3.4.1      p-Segments

This section shows that the optimal production of evidence depends on the
probability of liable injurers p. Specifically, it demonstrates that there are
three p-segments in Environment 1 that di↵er in the application of the ad-
justment procedures, and hence, in the optimal probabilities of investigation:
p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p̃], p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄] and p-Segment
2.2 where p 2 (p̄, 1). Proposition 5 identifies a sufficient condition for the ex-
istence of these three p-segments in Environment 1. Define ḡ = maxA {g(A)}
and g = minA {g(A)}.

    Proposition 5. Suppose C0 (A)           C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0)
and p 2 (0, 1). If ḡ < 2g, then there are three mutually-exclusive p-segments:
p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p̃], p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄], and p-Segment
2.2 where p 2 (p̄, 1).

    Next, we provide an intuitive discussion. Formal analysis is presented in
Appendix A.

p-Segments 1 and 2

We first characterize p̃ and demonstrate that p 2 (0, 1) is divided into two
main segments: p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p̃] and p-Segment 2 where p 2
(p̃, 1).
    The interim probabilities of investigation are: 8p 2 (0, 1) and 8A 2 [0, Ā],
q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A . Consider an injurer of type A and apply
Procedure 1. The maximal increase in q0 (A) while reducing q1 (A) such that
the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1) is satisfied as an equality
corresponds to q1 (A) = 0. Using equality (3), the corresponding q0 (A) is
             p   A
q0 (A) =    1 p f¯V .
    Define p̃ as the p-value such that, after exhausting the application of
Procedure 1 across A-values, i.e., after reducing q1 (A) to zero 8A 2 [0, Ā], the

                                       26
liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint evaluated at the adjusted
interim probabilities of verification is satisfied as an equality:
                Z Ā                  Z Ā ⇣
                                               p̃ ⌘ A
                     Ag(A)dA = f¯I                      g(A)dA,                      (5)
                  0                     0    1 p̃ f¯V
which can be rewritten as:
               Z Ā                     Z
                               f¯ ⇣ p̃ ⌘ Ā
                                 I
                    Ag(A)dA = ¯V            Ag(A)dA.
                0             f    1 p̃ 0
Hence,
                                             f¯V
                                     p̃ = ¯V      ,
                                          f + f¯I
                ¯V
where 0 < f¯Vf+f¯I < 1. Proposition 5 shows that p̃ < p0 . Claim 6 shows
                                                    p   A
that the feasibility constraint q0 (A) =           1 p f¯V    1 holds 8p 2 (0, p̃] and
8A 2 [0, Ā].

p-Segments 2.1 and 2.2

We now characterize p̄ and demonstrate that p-Segment 2, p 2 (p̃, 1), is
divided into two segments: p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄] and p-Segment
2.2 where p 2 (p̄, 1).
   Suppose p 2 (p̃, 1). By Claim 6, when p 2 (p̃, p0 ], after exhausting
                                                                            p   A
Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], the feasibility constraint for q0 (A) =          1 p f¯V   1
                                                             0
holds 8A 2 [0, Ā]. By Claim 4, when p 2 (p , 1), after exhausting the
                                                                           p   A
application of Procedure 1, the feasibility constraint q0 (A) =           1 p f¯V    1
only holds when A  A0 (p). Hence, Procedure 1 can be exhausted only
8A 2 [0, A0 (p)].
   Define p̄ as the p-value such that, after exhausting the application of
Procedure 1 for A 2 [0, A0 (p̄)], the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint evaluated at the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation is
satisfied as an equality, where A0 (p̄) = 1 p̄ f¯V :
                                                   p̄
   Z Ā                    Z A0 (p̄) ⇣                     Z Ā
                                           p̄ ⌘ A
          Ag(A)dA = f¯I                            g(A)dA +          0g(A)dA .       (6)
    0                        0            1 p̄ f¯V           A0 (p̄)

                                              27
Lemma 5 shows that there exists a unique A0 (p̄) such that 0 < A0 (p̄) < Ā,
and there exists a unique p̄ such that p0 < p̄ < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā]. The next
corollary summarizes the order relationship of p̃, p̄ and p0 .

   Corollary 4. 0 < p̃ < p0 < p̄ < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā].

3.4.2      Optimal Probabilities of Investigation

p-Segment 1

Suppose p 2 (0, p̃]. We show that Procedures 1 and 2 should be applied. Con-
sider first the application of Procedure 1. Given that p̃ < p0 , the feasibility
constraint of q0 (A)  1 still holds when the implementation of Procedure
1 is exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā]. After exhausting the application of Procedure
1 across A 2 [0, Ā], the adjusted interim probabilities of verification are
             p   A
q0 (A) =    1 p f¯V       < 1 and q1 (A) = 0. At the adjusted interim probabilities
of verification,
                   Z Ā                            Z Ā ⇣
                                                             p ⌘A
                           Ag(A)dA > f¯I                            g(A)dA,
                      0                             0       1 p f¯V
                                           p
                                   @   1       p
by the definition of p̃ and            @p          > 0. Therefore, Procedure 2 should be
also application. Remember that Procedure 2 consists of increasing q0 (A)
without reducing q1 (A) until the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint is satisfied as an equality. By the feasibility constraint for q0 (A),
the highest value for q0 (A) is 1. Starting at the lowest values of A, the
social planner increases q0 (A) to 1 for A 2 [0, A1 (p)], where A1 (p) is the
A-threshold such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
holds as an equality:
  Z Ā                 Z A1 (p)           Z Ā                       ✓            ◆
                                                                              p     A
       Ag(A)dA = f¯I             1g(A)dA +                                          ¯  g(A)dA .   (8)
    0                          0                             A1 (p)       1       p fV
Lemma 4 verifies that there exists a unique A1 (p) and that A1 (p) < Ā.
Lemma 4 also verifies that there exists a unique A1 (p̃) and that A1 (p̃) = 0.
                                                    28
Therefore, when p = p̃,
                     Z Ā                        Z Ā ⇣
                                                             p ⌘A
                            Ag(A)dA = f¯I                           g(A)dA,
                       0                            0       1 p f¯V

which is aligned with the definition of p̃.
   Hence, the optimal production of evidence in p-Segment 1 involves the
following optimal probabilities of investigation. For A 2 [0, A1 (p)], q0 (A) = 1
                                                                      p   A
and q1 (A) = 0. For A 2 (A1 (p), Ā], q0 (A) =                       1 p f¯V   < 1 and q1 (A) = 0,
          1
where A (p) is determined implicitly by the liable injurer’s incentive compati-
                                             R Ā               ⇥ R A1 (p)
bility constraint (2) written as an equality, 0 Ag(A)dA = f¯I 0            g(A)dA+
R Ā      p   A
                         ⇤
 A1 (p) 1 p f¯V
                g(A)dA . The optimal social welfare loss for p-Segment 1 is:

                SW L1 = H + E[C(A)]1 + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
                                   Z Ā
                               =          Ag(A)dA + (1               p)⇥
                                    0
        Z A1 (p)                         Z Ā      ✓            ◆
                                                            p     A
   ⇥                C0 (A)g(A)dA +                                ¯  C0 (A)g(A)dA + 0 + 0.
          0                                A1 (p)       1       p fV

p-Segment 2.1

Suppose p 2 (p̃, p̄], where p̃ < p0 < p̄. Two cases are possible. Suppose first
that p 2 (p̃, p0 ]. By Claim 5, if p  p0 , then Ā  A0 (p). Therefore, the
feasibility constraint q0 (A)  1 holds when the implementation of Procedure
1 is exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā]. We show that only Procedure 1 should be applied
and the application of Procedure 1 should not be exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā].
                                                                     @( 1 p p )
Given that p > p̃, by the definition of p̃ and by                       @p      > 0, after exhausting
the application of Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], the liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is:
                     Z Ā                        Z Ā ⇣
                                                             p ⌘A
                            Ag(A)dA < f¯I                           g(A)dA.
                       0                            0       1 p f¯V


                                                    29
Therefore, Procedure 1 should be exhausted only for A 2 [0, A2.1 (p)], where
A2.1 (p) corresponds to A-threshold such that the liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint holds as an equality:
 Z Ā                        Z A2.1 (p) ✓                ◆                  Z Ā
                                                     p      A
        Ag(A)dA = f¯I                                          g(A)dA +                  0g(A)dA . (9)
  0                               0              1       p f¯V                A2.1 (p)

Lemma 5 verifies that there exists a unique A2.1 (p) and that 0 < A2.1 (p) < Ā.
      Suppose now that p 2 (p0 , p̄]. By Claim 5, if p > p0 , then Ā > A0 (p).
Therefore, the feasibility constraint for q0 (A) holds when the implementation
of Procedure 1 is exhausted only for A 2 [0, A0 (p)]. Lemma 5 also verifies
that there exists a unique A2.1 (p)  A0 (p) and that 0 < A2.1 (p) < Ā.
      Hence, the optimal production of evidence in p-Segment 2.1. involves
the following optimal probabilities of investigations. For A 2 [0, A2.1 (p)],
                p   A                             2.1
q0 (A) =       1 p f¯V and q1 (A) = 0. For A 2 (A     (p), Ā], q0 (A) = 0 and
                A                 2.1
q1 (A) =     f¯V +A
                    < 1, where A (p) is determined implicitly by the liable
injurer’s incentive compatibility constraint (2) written as an equality,
R Ā                R A2.1 (p) p A
 0
     Ag(A)dA = f¯I 0           1 p f¯V g(A)dA. The optimal social welfare loss
for p-Segment 2.1 is:

                  SW L2.1 = H + E[C(A)]2.1 + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
             Z Ā                                Z A2.1 (p) ✓            ◆
                                                                    p      A
         =          Ag(A)dA + (1            p)                                C0 (A)g(A)dA+
              0                                      0          1       p f¯V
                           Z Ā        ✓           ◆
                                              A
                      +p                             C1 (A)g(A)dA + 0 + 0.
                            A2.1 (p)       f¯V + A

p-Segment 2.2

Suppose p 2 (p̄, 1). Given that p̄ > p0 , Ā > A0 (p), by Claim 5. Therefore,
                                                            p   A
the feasibility constraint for q0 (A) =                    1 p f¯V       1 holds when the applica-
tion of Procedure 1 is exhausted only for A 2 [0, A0 (p)]. Lemma 6 shows
that, after exhausting the application of Procedure 1 for A 2 [0, A0 ], the

                                                         30
liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is still not satisfied:
      Z Ā                              Z A0 (p) ✓                    ◆                       Z Ā
                                                                  p      A
                Ag(A)dA > f¯I                                               g(A)dA +                     0g(A)dA .
           0                                   0              1       p f¯V                     A0 (p)

Therefore, the social planner should apply Procedure 1 by increasing q0 (A) to
                                                       f¯V
1 and reducing q1 (A) to 1                         p(f¯V +A)
                                                             to A > A0 (p). Lemma 6 also shows that
                                                                    0      2.2            2.2
this adjustments should be applied 8A 2 (A (p), A                                        (p)], where A             (p) cor-
responds to the A-threshold such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint is satisfied as an equality:
                                                       Z Ā
                                                              Ag(A)dA =
                                                        0
           Z A0 (p) ✓                 ◆                          Z A2.2 (p)                     Z Ā
                               p      A
= f¯I                                    g(A)dA +                              1g(A)dA +                         0g(A)dA .
               0           1       p f¯V                              A0 (p)                          A2.2 (p)
                                                                                                                        (10)
                                                                                         2.2                        0
Finally, Lemma 6 verifies that there exists a unique A                                         (p) such that A (p) <
    2.2
A         (p) < Ā.
      Hence, the optimal production of evidence in p-Segment 2.2. involves the
following optimal probabilities investigation. For A 2 [0, A0 (p)], q0 (A) =
  p   A                                0      2.2
 1 p f¯V and q1 (A) = 0. For A 2 (A (p), A        (p)], q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) =
       f¯V
1 p(f¯V +A) . For A 2 (A2.2 (p), Ā], q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = A+Af¯.V , where
 2.2
A    (p) is determined implicitly by the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
                                       R Ā                 ⇥ R A0 (p) p A
constraint (2) written as an equality, 0 Ag(A)dA = f¯I 0               1 p f¯V g(A)dA+
R A2.2 (p)       ⇤
 A0 (p)
           g(A)dA and A0 (p) = p f¯V . The optimal social welfare loss for
                                  1  p

p-Segment 2.2 is:

                       SW L2.2 = H + E[C(A)]2.2 + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
                                               Z Ā
                                           =           Ag(A)dA + (1               p)⇥
                                                   0
                Z A0 (p) ✓                ◆                                   Z A2.2 (p)               i
                                   p      A
           ⇥                                 C0 (A)g(A)dA +                                 C0 (A)g(A)dA +
                   0           1       p f¯V                                    A0 (p)

                                                                  31
                Table 1: Optimal Production of Evidence – Environment 1

     p-Segment                      A-Segment           Optimal q0 (A)    Optimal q1 (A)
     p-Segment 1                  A 2 [0, A1 (p)]               1               0
                                                            p        A
     p 2 (0, p̃]                  A 2 (A1 (p), Ā]         1 p      f¯V
                                                                                0
                                                            p        A
     p-Segment 2.1               A 2 [0, A2.1 (p)]         1 p      f¯V
                                                                                0
                                                                                 A
     p 2 (p̃, p̄]                A 2 (A2.1 (p), Ā]             0             f¯V +A
                                                            p        A
     p-Segment 2.2                A 2 [0, A0 (p)]          1 p      f¯V
                                                                                0
                                                                                   f¯V
     p 2 (p̄, 1)               A 2 (A0 (p), A2.2 (p)]           1         1    p(f¯V +A)
                                                                                 A
                                 A 2 (A2.2 (p), Ā]             0             f¯V +A




                         ⇢ Z A2.2 (p) 
                                             f¯V
                    +p                    1          C1 (A)g(A)dA+
                          A0 (p)         p(f¯V + A)
                      Z Ā      ✓         ◆
                                     A
                    +                       C1 (A)g(A)dA + 0 + 0.
                       A2.2 (p)   f¯V + A

   Table 1 summarizes the optimal production of evidence in Environment 1.
In contrast to the American civil justice system where evidence is produced
in every filed case, and hence society’s resources are diverted from productive
activities to the costly production of evidence in every legal case, our analysis
suggests that the optimal production of evidence involves just a subset of
legal cases.
   When the probability of liable injurers is sufficiently low (p  p̃), the
victim’s gains from misreporting are low. Therefore, the production of evi-
dence just in legal cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable suffices to
incentivize the victim and the liable injurer to truthfully report their types.
When probability of liable injurers is sufficiently high (p > p̃), the victim’s
gains from misreporting are high, and these gains increase with the reported
damages. If the victim untruthfully reports relatively low damages, then the
gains from misreporting are lower. Therefore, the production of evidence
just in legal cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable suffices to in-
centivize the victim and the liable injurer to truthfully report their types.
                                                 32
If the victim untruthfully reports relatively high damages, the gains from
misreporting are higher. Given that the victim receives compensation only
from a liable injurer only, the production of evidence just in the legal cases
where the injurer reports to be liable suffices to incentivize the victim to
truthfully report her type. In addition, given that the legal cases where the
injurer reports to be non-liable are investigated if the victim reports low
damages, the resulting aggregate probability of investigation also suffices to
incentivize the liable injurer to truthfully report his type because the injurer
does not know the victim’s type.


3.5     An Illustration: Uniform Distribution of Damages
A simple example using a uniform distribution of damages illustrates the
results for the benchmark model. We focus on Environment 1, p-Segment
2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄].29 Appendix B presents formal analysis of the model
with a uniform distribution of damages and discusses the numerical example.
    Suppose that the victim’s damage types A are uniformly distributed on
                                                                    R Ā
the interval [0, Ā], where g(A) = Ā1 8A 2 [0, Ā], G(A) = A
                                                            Ā
                                                               , and 0 Ag(A)dA =
Ā
 2q. The relevant threshold A2.1 (p) and p̄ can be explicitly defined: A2.1 (p) =
           f¯V               ¯V ¯I
Ā (1 pp)
        f¯I
               and, p̄ = f¯Vff¯If+Ā2 . Suppose that the cost of producing evidence
functions are C0 (A) = C0 + c0 A and C1 (A) = C1 + c1 A, where Ci > 0
and ci > 0 (i = 0, 1) are constants. The set of exogenous parameters is:
{C0 , C1 , c0 , c1 , f¯V , f¯I , Ā, p} = {1528, 690, 0.3, 0.01, 1800, 3600, 1200, 0.45}. The
condition for Environment 1 becomes C0 (A) = 1528 + 0.3A                  690 + 0.01A =
                             30
C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, 1200].
    Table 3 summarizes our results. Intuitively, in a state of the world where
the cost of producing evidence in legal cases where the injurer reports to be
non-liable and the victim reports damages A 2 [0, 1200] is greater than or

  29 See Appendix B for an example of Environment 2, p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1].
  30 After simplification,    838 < 0.29A 8A 2 [0, 1200].


                                              33
                Table 3: Numerical Example – Optimal Production of Evidence

 Environment              p-Segment      A-Segment     Optimal q0 (A)a   Optimal q1 (A)a
 Environment 1            (0.33, 0.82]    [0, 938]     q0 (A) = 0.213      q1 (A) = 0
 (p-Segment 2.1)                         (938, 1200]     q0 (A) = 0      q1 (A) = 0.373

Note: a For each A-segment, q0 (A) and q1 (A) are evaluated at the average A-value; p =
0.45 is used.


equal to the cost of producing evidence in legal cases where the injurer reports
to be liable and the victim reports damages A 2 [0, 1200], Environment 1
emerges. Evidence might be produced only in legal cases where the injurer
reports to be non-liable and the victim reports sufficiently low damages (A 
938). Evidence might be also produced in legal cases where the injurer
reports to be liable if the victim reports sufficiently high damages (A >
938). The expected harm from an accident, equal to the expected victim’s
damages, is H = 1200
                 2   = 600. The optimal expected cost of producing
evidence for p-Segment 2.1 is E[C(A)]2.1 = 343, the optimal expected cost
from the infringement of the victim’s right of access to justice is ✓E[⌘(A)] = 0
and the optimal expected cost from the infringement of the right of the
victims confronting liable injurers to be fully compensated is ⇤E[⇠(A)] = 0.
Hence, SW L2.1 = 943.

    Our findings regarding the optimal production of evidence suggest that,
under the optimal direct-revelation mechanism, the victims always partici-
pate in the mechanism, E[⌘(A)] = 0, the victims and the injurers truthfully
reveal their types, the victims confronting liable injurers are fully compen-
sated, E[⇠(A)] = 0, and the expected cost of producing evidence E[C(A)] is
minimal. In other words, the social planner achieves the goal of providing
access to justice to the victims and restoring the welfare of the victims con-
fronting liable injurers at the minimum expected cost of producing evidence.
It is worth noting that, in contrast to the inefficient production of evidence
in real-life settings, the truthful revelation of private information requires

                                              34
the production of evidence only in a subset of the legal cases.


3.6     Application in Real-World Settings: Tort Reform
This section demonstrates that the proposed optimal mechanism has real-
world applications and significant policy implications. Consider a tort reform
consisting of adding a first stage, an “Information-Revelation Stage” to the
current civil litigation procedures. We model this environment by adding
this first stage to a standard model of litigation.
   Consider the following game with two-sided incomplete information and
three Bayesian risk-neutral players, a social planner, a plainti↵ (victim) and
a defendant (injurer). The sequence of moves is as follows. Nature moves
first and determines the players’ types, given the probabilities distributions
described before, and privately informs the type to each player. The types
are independently distributed, and the distributions are commonly known.
Then, the Information-Revelation Stage starts. In this stage, the social
planner chooses a direct-revelation mechanism involving incentives to the
(potential) plainti↵ to file a lawsuit (initiate the mechanism by deciding to
participate) and incentives to the plainti↵ and the defendant to truthfully
report their types, i.e., the social planner chooses a direct-revelation mecha-
nism with a truth-telling equilibrium. As in the benchmark model, the social
planner produces evidence to verify the reports with probabilities q0 (A) and
q1 (A). C0 (A) and C1 (A) denote the cost of producing evidence. We assume
that C0 (A)   C1 (A),31 and that the social planner pays the cost of produc-
ing evidence.32 The social planner imposes fine f i 2 [0, f¯i ] (i = P, D) in
case of misreporting.
   The social planner then informs the reported types to the plainti↵ and

 31 This environment corresponds to Environment 1 of the benchmark model.
 32 Our qualitative findings also hold when the plainti↵ and the defendant pay the cost

of producing evidence.



                                         35
the defendant, and a standard two-stage litigation game starts. The plainti↵
makes a take-it-or-leave-it settlement o↵er S to the defendant, and after
observing the o↵er, the defendant decides whether to accept or reject it.
In case of acceptance, the legal case is settled out of court; otherwise, a
costly trial occurs. We assume that each party pays her own litigation costs,
K i > 0 (i = P, D), and that f¯P  W P K P and f¯D  W D (Ā + K D ).33
Compensation to the plainti↵ is granted only when the defendant is liable.
    Next, we show that a direct-revelation mechanism with a truth-telling
equilibrium exists, and that this mechanism is the same as the optimal direct-
revelation mechanism of the benchmark model.

3.6.1    Litigation Game

Consider the equilibrium strategies of a litigation game of complete infor-
mation. At trial, the plainti↵ of type A gets compensation A only when the
defendant is liable. Given that each party pays their own litigation cost,
K V and K I , the plainti↵ gets payo↵ A             K V when the defendant is liable,
and     K V when the defendant is non-liable; and, the defendant gets payo↵
  (A + K I ) when he is liable, and,        K I when he is non-liable. Consider now
the pretrial bargaining negotiations. In equilibrium, the plainti↵ of type A
makes pretrial settlement o↵er S = A + K I to the liable defendant, an o↵er
S = K I to the non-liable defendant; and, both types of defendants accept
the o↵er. Hence, out-of-court settlement is achieved with certainty.

3.6.2    Direct-Revelation Mechanism with Truth-Telling Equilib-
         rium

We show now that the social planner’s problem, objective function and con-
straints, is the same as the benchmark model. As a result, in equilibrium,

  33 These assumptions ensure that the defendant is not judgement proof, and the plainti↵

has sufficient financial resources to pay her own litigation costs.


                                             36
the social planner chooses a direct-revelation mechanism with a truth-telling
equilibrium that is the same as the optimal mechanism of the benchmark
model.
   Note first that, as in the benchmark model, the goal of the social planner
in this game-theoretic environment is to minimize the social welfare loss
associated with an accident by providing access to justice to the victims
and maximal compensation to the victims confronting liable injurers at the
minimum expected cost of producing evidence.
   Second, we show that the relevant constraints are the same as in the
benchmark model. The plainti↵’s individual rationality (participation) con-
straint is 8A 2 [0, Ā], p(A + K I )   0, which is trivially satisfied 8A 2 [0, Ā].
The plainti↵’s incentive-compatibility constraint is as follows. Given that
the plainti↵ of type zero will have the strongest gain from misreporting, it
suffices to evaluate her incentives. When the plainti↵ truthfully reveals her
type, her expected payo↵ is K I . When she misreport her type, her expected
payo↵ is [p(1 q1 (A))A] {[pq1 (A) + (1 p)q0 (A)]f¯V } + K I . Hence, the
plainti↵’s incentive-compatibility constraint is [p(1        q1 (A))A]   {[pq1 (A) +
(1 p)q0 (A)]f¯V } + K I  K I . After simplification,

                 [pq1 (A) + (1    p)q0 (A)]f¯V       p(1   q1 (A))A,             (1)

which is the same as in the benchmark model. The liable defendant’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is as follows. When the liable defendant truthfully
                                          R Ā
reports his type, his expected loss is 0 Ag(A)dA + K I . When he misre-
                                           R Ā
ports his type, his expected loss is f¯I 0 q0 (A)g(A)dA + K I . Hence, the
                                                        R Ā
liable defendant’s incentive-compatibility constraint is 0 Ag(A)dA + K I 
    R Ā
f¯I 0
         q0 (A)g(A)dA + K I . After simplification,
                     Z Ā                   Z Ā
                            Ag(A)dA  f¯I          q0 (A)g(A)dA,                 (2)
                      0                      0

which is the same as in the benchmark model. Finally, the non-liable defen-
dant’s incentive-compatibility constraint is         KI
                                        37
       ⇢
           R Ā ⇥                    ⇤
            0
                q1 (A))A + q1 (A)f I g(A)dA+K I . After simplification, 0
                    (1
 R Ā ⇥                         ⇤
  0
        (1 q1 (A))A + q1 (A)f I g(A)dA, which is the same as in the bench-
mark model, and is trivially satisfied 8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8f I 2 [0, f¯I ]. Therefore,
as in the benchmark model, the relevant constraints are constraint (1) and
(2).
    Hence, the social planner’s problem consists of choosing the probabilities
of investigation q0 (A) and q1 (A) that minimize the expected cost of produc-
ing evidence subject to the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1)
and the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint (2). Given that
the social planner’s problem is the same as in the benchmark model, the
equilibrium probabilities of investigation q0 (A) and q1 (A) correspond to the
optimal mechanism of the benchmark model.

    Our previous analysis demonstrates that the optimal mechanism of the
benchmark model has real-world applications and hence, significant policy
implications. Under the proposed tort reform, perfect revelation of private
information is achieved by producing evidence on just a subset of legal cases.
In equilibrium, all cases are settled out of court and hence, the likelihood of
trial and the corresponding litigation cost are minimized.


4      Optimal Civil Justice Design with Endoge-
       nous Cost Allocation
We extend our benchmark model by endogenizing the allocation of the cost
of producing evidence between the victim and the injurer. In contrast to the
previous literature on civil justice, we characterize the optimal cost-allocation
rule under an optimal production of evidence. Our analysis demonstrates
that the key insights of the benchmark model regarding the optimal produc-
tion of evidence extend to this setting. We also derive important new insights

                                        38
regarding the role of the cost of producing evidence and the society’s con-
cern about restoring the victim’s welfare on the optimal cost allocation. Our
findings suggest that the cost-allocation rule applied in the American civil
justice system, where each party pays his own cost of producing evidence, is
not always the socially-optimal cost-allocation rule.
    Our benchmark framework assumes that the social planner pays the cost
of producing evidence. We assume now that the victim and the injurer
might pay a share of the cost of producing evidence. Denote ↵i such that
0  ↵i  1 as the victim’s share of Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). We also assume that
W I > max{C0 (Ā), Ā + C1 (Ā)} and W V > max{C0 (Ā), C1 (Ā)}.34 All the
other assumptions of the benchmark model hold here.
    The next sections outline the main steps in the characterization of the
optimal production of evidence qi (A) and the optimal allocation of the cost
of producing evidence ↵i (i = 0, 1).35 The proof of the main Proposition
(Proposition 12) is presented in Appendix A. Formal analysis of the optimal
mechanism and additional proofs are included in Appendix C. Description
of the numerical example is presented in Appendix D.36


4.1     Players’ Constraints
As in the benchmark model, the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint,
8A, A0 2 [0, Ā],

                 p(A     ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))      (1    p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)

  34 The first assumption indicates that although the injurer has limited financial resources,

his financial resources suffice to pay the cost of evidence production and to compensate the
victim, i.e., he is not judgment proof. The second assumption indicates that although the
victim has limited financial resources, her financial resources suffice to pay the evidence
production cost, i.e., she is not judgment proof.
  35 Although q (A, ↵ , ↵ ) (i = 0, 1), to simplify notation, we use q (A) (i = 0, 1) across
               i       0  1                                           i
sections.
  36 For brevity, the main text of the paper only includes the main proposition.



                                             39
                        p(1   q1 (A0 ))A0       [pq1 (A0 ) + (1    p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V

and the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
  Z Ā                                Z Ā                                Z Ā
         Ag(A)dA + (1          ↵1 )          q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA  f¯I            q0 (A)g(A)dA
   0                                   0                                    0

are not trivially satisfied. In contrast to the benchmark model, the victim’s
individual rationality constraint, 8A 2 [0, Ā],

                  pA      [p↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A) + (1           p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)]       0

and the non-liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
                Z Ā                               Z Ā
  (1     ↵0 )          q0 (A)C0 (A)g(A)dA                [(1   q1 (A))A + q1 (A)f¯I ]g(A)dA
                 0                                  0

are also not trivially satisfied.


4.2      Social Planner’s Civil Justice Design Problem
Given that now the victim might share the cost of producing evidence,
            R Ā
E[⇠(A)] = p 0 ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA     0. It represents the expected in-
fringement of the right of the victims confronting liable injurers to be fully
compensated or the victims’ expected undercompensation.
   The social planner’s problem is to minimize the SW L function by choos-
ing the optimal production of evidence qi (A) and the optimal allocation
of the cost of producing evidence ↵i (i = 0, 1), subject to the victim’s
incentive-compatibility constraint, the victim’s individual-rationality con-
straint, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint, the non-liable
injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint, and the feasibility constraints
0  qi (A)  1 and 0  ↵i  1 (i = 0, 1).
   Note first, the term H is exogenous. Second, given that the victims con-
fronting liable injurers might pay a share of the cost of producing evidence,
they might not be fully compensated and their welfare might not be totally

                                                  40
restored, i.e., E[⇠(A)]            0. Third, given that the victim’s individual ratio-
nality constraint is not trivially satisfied, some victims might decide not to
participate, i.e., E[⌘(A)]              0. Therefore, the social planner’s problem is:
                                       ⇢ Z Ā
               min                              [pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1    p)q0 (A)C0 (A)] g(A)dA+
q0 (A,↵0 ,↵1 ),q1 (A,↵0 ,↵1 ),↵0 ,↵1      0

                    Z Ā                             Z Ā
               +✓          ⌘(A)g(A)dA + ⇤p                  ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA
                      0                               0

subject to the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint, the victim’s individual-
rationality constraint, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint,
the non-liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint, and the feasibility
constraints 0  qi (A)  1 and 0  ↵i  1 (i = 0, 1). Importantly, in the
optimal mechanism, by ensuring that the victim’s individual-rationality con-
straint is satisfied, the victims will fully participate in the legal system and
get access to justice and ⌘(A) will be zero 8A 2 [0, Ā]. By also ensuring that
the victim’s share of the cost of producing evidence ↵1 is optimal, maximal
compensation to the victims confronting liable injurers will be ensured in
the optimal mechanism. Hence, the main goal of the civil justice system of
access to justice and maximal compensation to the victims confronting liable
injurers is achieved at the minimum cost of producing evidence.

    The methodology proposed in the benchmark model can be extended to
accommodate this more complex framework. The characterization of the
optimal production of evidence q0 (A) and q1 (A) and the optimal allocation
of the cost of producing evidence ↵0 and ↵1 now requires a five-step proce-
dure. In the first four steps, presented in Appendix C, we characterize the
interim probabilities of investigation taking the shares of the cost of produc-
ing evidence as given but including the feasibility constraints 0  ↵i  1
(i = 0, 1). In the fifth step, presented in the next section, we use the interim
probabilities of investigation to characterize the optimal probabilities of in-


                                                    41
vestigation and the optimal shares of the cost of producing evidence.37 Our
findings suggest that, in addition to the cost of producing evidence and the
probability of liable injurers, the optimal mechanism also depends on the
society’s concern about restoring the victim’s welfare ⇤.


4.3     Optimal Cost Allocation and Optimal Production
        of Evidence
We characterize the optimal cost allocation and the optimal production of
evidence. Our focus is on Environment 1, p-Segment 2.1.38 We first char-
acterize the optimal cost allocation, i.e., the optimal ↵i (i = 0, 1). We then
characterize the optimal production of evidence by evaluating A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) at
the optimal ↵1 . The next corollary summarizes the interim probabilities of
investigation obtained in Steps 1–4, and underscores that only ↵1 a↵ects the
interim probabilities of investigation.

   Corollary 6. Suppose C0 (A)              C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) >
C1 (0)(1 + ⇤) and p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The interim probabilities of investigation are
                                                      p   A
as follows. For A 2 [0, A2.1 (p, ↵1 )], q0 (A) =     1 p f¯V and q1 (A) = 0. For
A 2 (A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), Ā], q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1. A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) is deter-
mined implicitly by the liable injurer’s incentive compatibility constraint writ-
                      R Ā                     R Ā
ten as an equality, 0 Ag(A)dA + (1 ↵1 ) A2.1 (p,↵1 ) f¯VA+A C1 (A)g(A)dA =
   R A2.1 (p,↵1 ) p A
f¯I 0             1 p f¯V g(A)dA.


   Given that the victim’s individual-rationality constraint is satisfied at the
interim probabilities of investigation 8↵i (i = 0, 1), ✓E[⌘(A)] = 0. There-
fore, the function E[C(A)] + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)], evaluated at the interim

 37 Given that this is a linear-programming problem, the order on the analysis of con-

straints does not a↵ect the characterization of the optimal instruments.
  38 The analysis of the optimal mechanisms for the other two p-segments of Environment

1 and for Environment 2 is available from the authors upon request.

                                          42
probabilities of investigation becomes:

                                   E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
                     Z Ā                ✓    ◆
                                          A
                   = p                           C1 (A)g(A)dA+
                        A2.1 (p,↵1 )  f¯V + A
                       Z A2.1 (p,↵1 ) ✓       ◆
                                          p     A
                +(1 p)                          ¯  C0 (A)g(A)dA +
                        0               1   p   fV
                      Z Ā            ✓          ◆
                                            A
                  +p⇤               ↵1 ¯V          C1 (A)g(A)dA,
                       A2.1 (p,↵1 )     f +A
where A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) is implicitly defined by the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint holding as an equality:
       Z Ā                               Z Ā            ✓           ◆
                                                                 A
              Ag(A)dA + (1         ↵1 )                                 C1 (A)g(A)dA =
        0                                  A2.1 (p,↵1 )       f¯V + A
                              Z A2.1 (p,↵1 ) ✓             ◆
                                                      p      A
                      = f¯I                                     g(A)dA.
                               0                  1       p f¯V
After simplification,
                              E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
                             Z Ā           ✓         ◆
                                                 A
               = p(1 + ⇤↵1 )                            C1 (A)g(A)dA+
                               A2.1 (p,↵1 )   f¯V + A
                           Z A2.1 (p,↵1 )
                                            A
                        +p                  ¯   C0 (A)g(A)dA.
                             0              fV
Given that the E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] does not depend on ↵0 , any ↵0 2 [0, 1]
is optimal. Therefore, the social planner’s problem is reduced to:

                              min {E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)]}.
                          ↵1 2[0,1]

The characterization of the optimal ↵1 involves several steps. We outline
the main steps here. The proof of Proposition 13 in Appendix A provides
formal analysis.

                                                 43
   Although A2.1 is a function of p and ↵1 , i.e., A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), to simplify the
notation, we use A2.1 in (most parts of) the analysis, and denote E[C(A)] +
⇤E[⇠(A)] as S.
                                             @S
                                                 =
                                             @↵1
                                Z Ā
                                            A
                           =p                      C1 (A)g(A)dA⇥
                                  A2.1  A + f¯V
  2                                                      ⇣ 2.1                                        ⌘3
      A2.1        2.1         A2.1           2.1           A       p ¯I           A2.1          2.1
      f¯V  C 0 (A     ) + A +f¯
                             2.1    V C 1 (A     ) +  ⇤     f¯ 1 p
                                                              V       f   +   A +f¯
                                                                                 2.1   V C 1 (A     )
⇥4                       A2.1 p ¯I                         A2.1
                                                                                                       5.
                                     f  +  (1      ↵   )            C   (A 2.1 )
                          ¯
                          f V   1  p                 1    2.1
                                                         A +f   ¯V    1

                                      @S
Proposition 13 shows that the sign of @↵ 1
                                           is ambiguous and depends on ⇤.
In other words, any sufficient conditions that solve this ambiguity should
include ⇤.
   We use the function ⇤0 (↵1 ), defined as the ⇤-function that results from
         @S
equating @↵ 1
              to zero,
                                  A2.1              A2.1
                                  f¯V
                                       C0 (A2.1 ) A2.1     C (A2.1 )
                                                       +f¯V 1
                      0
                    ⇤ (↵1 ) =      A2.1 p ¯I       A2.1
                                                                     ,
                                    f¯V 1 p
                                            f + A2.1      C (A2.1 )
                                                     +f¯V 1
                                                                          @S
to find sufficient conditions on ⇤ such that the ambiguity of the sign of @↵ 1
                                                                   0
is solved. Next, we need to evaluate the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) :

                               @⇤0 (↵1 )   @⇤0 (↵1 ) @A2.1
                                         =                 ,
                                 @↵1        @A2.1 @↵1
          2.1                                                               0
                                                     @⇤ (↵1 )
where @A
       @↵1 < 0. Proposition 12 shows that the sign of @A2.1 is ambiguous,
                                     0
and therefore, the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) is also ambiguous. Hence, additional suf-
                                                      1 (A)
ficient conditions are required. We show that when @C@A     > µ 8A 2 [0, Ā],
@⇤0 (↵1 )                  @⇤0 (↵1 )                                           0

 @A2.1 < 0 and hence,        @↵1     > 0; when @C@A1 (A)
                                                         < µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], @⇤    (↵1 )
                                                                             @A2.1 >
                  0                                                        0
0 and hence, @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) < 0; and, when @C@A  1 (A)
                                                      = µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], @⇤   (↵1 )
                                                                          @A2.1 = 0
                                                                              @S
              0                                                            @ @↵
and hence, @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) = 0.39 To complete the analysis, we show that @⇤          1
                                                                                   > 0,
                                 ¯ 0            0             0
and define the ⇤-thresholds ⇤ ⌘ max↵1 ⇤ (↵1 ) and ⇤ ⌘ min↵1 ⇤ (↵1 ).        0


 39 µ represents a threshold for @C1 (A) , and is formally characterized in Proposition 12.
                                   @A

                                                44
   We can now characterize the three main mutually-exclusive ⇤-segments,
Cases 1–3, and the optimal ↵1 for each case. (1) Case 1: If ⇤ < ⇤0 , then
⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of ⇤0 . Therefore, @↵
                                                                @S
                                                                   1
                                                                     < 0, by
                                   @ @S
the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ) and @⇤
                               @↵1
                                   > 0. Hence, the optimal ↵1 = 1. (2)
Case 2: If ⇤ > ⇤                                                         ¯ 0.
                 ¯ , then ⇤ > ⇤ (↵1 ) 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of ⇤
                  0             0

           @S                                                  @ @S
Therefore, @↵ 1
                > 0, by the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ) and @⇤
                                                       @↵1
                                                           > 0. Hence, the
                                          0 ¯0
optimal ↵1 = 0. (3) Case 3: If ⇤ 2 [⇤ , ⇤ ], then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) for some
↵1 2 [0, 1] and/or ⇤ > ⇤0 (↵1 ) for some ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the ambiguity of
                  0                                                   0
the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) due to the ambiguity of the sign of @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                             @A2.1 . Hence, we
need to use the additional sufficient conditions on µ to solve the ambiguity
                       0
of the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) . We characterize three mutually-exclusive cases: Case
                                            0
              1 (A)
3(a) where @C@A                                                        1 (A)
                    > µ and hence, @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) > 0; Case 3(b) where @C@A     <µ
                   0
                                                    1 (A)
and hence, @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) < 0; and, Case 3(c) where @C@A     = µ, and hence,
@⇤0 (↵1 )
  @↵1     = 0.    Consider, for instance, Case 3(b). Proposition 12 shows that,
                                                                             ¯ 0 ),
               ¯ 0 ), there exists an optimal ↵1 2 (0, 1) for each ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
when ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
i.e., ↵1 (⇤) 2 (0, 1) = arg min↵1 2[0,1] {S}.40 Proposition 12 summarizes the
optimal cost allocation.41

Proposition 12. Suppose C0 (A)                  C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) >
C1 (0)(1 + ⇤) and p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The optimal cost allocation is as follows.

  1. If ⇤ < ⇤0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 1 are optimal.

            ¯ 0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 0 are optimal.
  2. If ⇤ > ⇤

                  ¯ 0 ], then three cases are possible.
  3. If ⇤ 2 [⇤0 , ⇤

                      1 (A)
       (a) Suppose @C@A     > µ 8A 2 [0, Ā].
                 i. If ⇤ = ⇤0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 1 are optimal.

 40 This case corresponds to 3(b)iii in Proposition 12.

    ˆ represents a threshold for ⇤, and is formally characterized in Proposition 12.
 41 ⇤




                                           45
                      ¯ 0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 0 are optimal.
           ii. If ⇤ = ⇤
                             ¯ 0 ), then two cases are possible.
           iii. If ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
                               ˆ then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 1 are
               A. If ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤),
                     optimal.
                          ˆ ⇤
               B. If ⇤ 2 [⇤, ¯ 0 ), then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 0 are opti-
                     mal.
                     1 (A)
      (b) Suppose @C@A     < µ 8A 2 [0, Ā].
            i. If ⇤ = ⇤0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 1 are optimal.
                      ¯ 0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 0 are optimal.
           ii. If ⇤ = ⇤
                             ¯ 0 ), then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 (⇤) 2 (0, 1) are
           iii. If ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
               optimal.
                     1 (A)
      (c) Suppose @C@A     = µ 8A 2 [0, Ā].
            i. If ⇤ = ⇤0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 1 are optimal.
                      ¯ 0 , then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and ↵1 = 0 are optimal.
           ii. If ⇤ = ⇤
                             ¯ 0 ), then any ↵0 2 [0, 1] and any ↵1 2 [0, 1] are
           iii. If ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
               optimal.


   Given that neither E[C(A)] nor ⇤E[⇠(A)] depend on ↵0 , any ↵0 2 [0, 1] is
optimal across cases. Consider now the optimal ↵1 . By Claim 11, @E[C(A)]
                                                                   @↵1    <
0 and @⇤E[⇠(A)])
        @↵1          0. When ⇤ < ⇤0 (Case 1), the e↵ect of ↵1 on E[⇠(A)]
less than o↵sets the e↵ect of ↵1 on E[C(A)].42 Hence, the overall e↵ect of
↵1 on S is negative and the optimal ↵1 = 1. intuitively, when the society’s
concern about restoring the welfare of a victim confronting a liable injurer
is sufficiently low, social welfare loss is minimized by allocating the cost
of producing evidence only to the victim, only to the injurer, or to both
the victim and the injurer when the injurer is non-liable (any ↵0 2 [0, 1]

 42 Hence, @S < 0.
           @↵1


                                       46
is optimal), and by allocating the cost of producing evidence only to the
victim when the injurer is liable (↵1 = 1). Hence, neither the American
rule where each party pays her own cost of producing evidence (↵i 2 (0, 1),
i = 0, 1) nor the English rule where the victim pays all the cost of producing
evidence when the injurer is non-liable and the injurer pays all the cost of
producing evidence when he is liable (↵0 = 1 and ↵1 = 0) are the optimal
cost-allocation rules. We denote the optimal rule as “Alternative rule.”43
   When ⇤ > ⇤   ¯ 0 (Case 2), the e↵ect of ↵1 on E[⇠(A)] more than o↵sets the
e↵ect of ↵1 on E[C(A)].44 Hence, the overall e↵ect of ↵1 on S is positive and
the optimal ↵1 = 0. Intuitively, when the society’s concern about restoring
the the welfare of a victim confronting a liable injurer is sufficiently high,
social welfare loss is minimized by allocating the cost of producing evidence
only to the victim, only to the injurer, or to both the victim and the injurer
when the injurer is non-liable (any ↵0 2 [0, 1] is optimal), and by allocating
the cost of producing evidence only to the injurer when the injurer is liable
(↵1 = 0). Given that any ↵0 2 [0, 1] is optimal, the social planner can
allocate the cost of producing evidence only to the victim when the injurer
is not liable (↵0 = 1). The optimal cost-allocation rule involving ↵0 = 1
and ↵1 = 0 resembles the English rule.45 When ⇤ 2 [⇤0 , ⇤ ¯ 0 ] (Case 3), the
e↵ect of ↵1 on E[⇠(A)] less than o↵sets, more than o↵sets or is equal to the
e↵ect of ↵1 on E[C(A)].46 Hence, the overall e↵ect of ↵1 on S is negative,
positive or equal to zero, and the optimal ↵1 = 1 or ↵1 = 0 or ↵1 2 (0, 1).
For an illustration of the American rule as the optimal cost-allocation rule
                                                        ¯ 0 ) and @C1 (A) < µ.
in our framework, consider Case 3(b)iii where ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤                        @A
                                              ¯ 0 ), the e↵ect of ↵1 on E[⇠(A)]
Proposition 12 shows that, for each ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
is lower (greater) than the e↵ect of ↵1 on E[C(A)] when ↵1 is lower (greater)

 43 Similar findings apply to Cases 3(a)i, 3(a)iii.A, 3(b)i and 3(c)i of Proposition 12.
 44 Hence, @S > 0.
            @↵1
 45 Similar findings apply to Cases 3(a)ii, 3(a)iii.B, 3(b)ii, and 3(c)ii of Proposition 12.
 46 Hence, @S < 0, @S > 0 or @S = 0.
           @↵1     @↵1       @↵1



                                            47
than the optimal ↵1 . Hence, the optimal ↵1 (⇤) 2 (0, 1). Given that any
↵0 2 [0, 1] is optimal, the social planner can choose any ↵0 2 (0, 1). The
optimal cost-allocation rule involving ↵i 2 (0, 1) (i = 0, 1) resembles the
American rule.47
    Important policy implications are derived. Our findings suggest that the
cost of producing evidence and the society’s concern about fully restoring
the victim’s welfare are determinant in the characterization of the optimal
cost-allocation rule. In contrast to previous work on cost-allocation rules in
civil litigation, we find that the English rule is not always the optimal cost-
allocation rule. This result might be explained by the general features of our
framework that allow us to study the design of optimal cost-allocation rules
under an optimal production of evidence. Importantly, our results suggest
that the cost-allocation rule applied in the American civil justice system, the
American rule, is not always the socially-optimal rule. We provide conditions
under which the American, the English rule or the Alternative rule might be
socially optimal.48


4.4     An Illustration: Uniform Distribution of Damages
A simple example using a uniform distribution of damages illustrates the
results for the model with endogenous cost allocation. We focus on Envi-
ronment 1, p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄]. Appendix D presents formal
analysis of the model with a uniform distribution of damages and discusses
the numerical example.
    As in Section 4.4, suppose that the victim’s damage types A are uni-
formly distributed on the interval [0, Ā],49 Suppose also that 41% of C0 (A)

  47 Similarly, in Case 3(c)iii of Proposition 12, the American rule might be optimal.
  48 As in the case of the benchmark model, a tort reform that implements the optimal

mechanism in real-world settings is feasible. Formal analysis and proofs are available from
the authors upon request.
  49 The relevant thresholds A2.1 (p, ↵ ) and p̄(↵ ) cannot be explicitly defined and hence,
                                       1          1



                                            48
  Table 4: Numerical Example – Optimal Cost Allocation and Optimal Production of
                                         Evidence
                            ⇤ < ⇤0                            ¯ 0]
                                                    ⇤ 2 [⇤0 , ⇤           ¯0
                                                                        ⇤>⇤
 Cost Allocation            ↵0 = 0                   ↵0 = 0.41           ↵0 = 1
                            ↵1 = 1                   ↵1 = 0.41           ↵1 = 0
                       (Alternat. Rule)         (American Rule)      (English Rule)
 Prod. of Evidencea       A 2 [0, 938]              A 2 [0, 962]      A 2 [0, 976]
                        q0 (A) = 0.213           q0 (A) = 0.218      q0 (A) = 0.222
                          q1 (A) = 0                 q1 (A) = 0        q1 (A) = 0
                        A 2 (938, 1200]         A 2 (962, 1200]      A 2 (976, 1200]
                          q0 (A) = 0                 q0 (A) = 0        q0 (A) = 0
                        q1 (A) = 0.373           q1 (A) = 0.371      q1 (A) = 0.377
 Social Welfare Loss        959.94                     962.14            960.06
 H                          600.00                     600.00            600.00
 E[C(A)]                    342.86                     353.59            360.06
 ✓E(⌘(A)]                      0                          0                0
 ⇤E(⇠(A)]                    17.08                      8.55               0

Note: a For each A-segment, q0 (A) and q1 (A) are evaluated at the average A-value and
p = 0.45.




                                           49
and C1 (A) corresponds to the cost of producing evidence associated with
the victim, and 59% of C0 (A) and C1 (A) corresponds to the cost of pro-
ducing evidence associated with the injurer.50 The cost of producing ev-
idence functions and the set of exogenous parameters used in Section 5.3
also hold here. In addition, we use three ⇤-values: ⇤ 2 {0.30, 0.40, 0.50}.
                                                                     0
                              1 (A)
In this numerical example, @C@A     < µ and therefore, @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) < 0. Hence,
                            ¯ 0 = ⇤0 (↵1 = 0) = 0.402. The expected harm
⇤0 = ⇤0 (↵ = 1) = 0.396 and ⇤
from an accident, equal to the expected victim’s damages, is H = 1200
                                                                  2 = 600
across ⇤-values. Table 4 summarizes the main results. Columns 2, 3 and 4
are constructed using ⇤ 2 {0.30, 0.40, 0.50}.
     Consider Column 2. The state of the world where ⇤ = 0.30 < 0.396 =
 0
⇤ corresponds to Case 1 of Proposition 13 where the optimal ↵0 2 [0, 1]
and the optimal ↵1 = 1. Hence, the optimal cost-allocation rule is the
Alternative rule.51 Consider Column 3. The state of the world where ⇤ =
                            ¯ 0 ) corresponds to Case 3(b)iii of Proposition
0.40 2 (0.396, 0.402) = (⇤, ⇤
12 where the optimal ↵0 2 [0, 1] and the optimal ↵1 (↵1 ) 2 (0, 1). Given
that ⇤ = 0.40, ↵1 (0.40) = 0.41. By assumption, 41% of Ci (A) corresponds
to the cost of producing evidence associated with the victim (i = 0, 1).
Hence, when the optimal ↵0 = 0.41 and the optimal ↵1 = 0.41, this cost-
allocation rule corresponds to the American Rule. Consider Column 4. The
state of the world where ⇤ = 0.50 > 0.402 = ⇤ ¯ 0 corresponds to Case 2 of
Proposition 12 where the optimal ↵0 2 [0, 1] and the optimal ↵1 = 0. Hence,
when the optimal ↵0 = 1 and the optimal ↵1 = 0, this cost-allocation rule

they can be characterized only numerically. The MATLAB software is used to construct
this numerical example.
  50 Remember that C (A) refers to the cost of producing evidence when the injurer reports
                    i
type i and the victim reports damages A 2 [0, Ā] (i = 0, 1), i.e., the cost of producing
evidence for both parties involved in a legal case.
  51 Given that ↵ = 1, the term of the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
                  1
that depends on ↵1 cancels out. Hence, the optimal probabilities of investigation presented
in Section 5.3 also hold here.


                                            50
corresponds to the English Rule. It is worth notice that when ⇤ is sufficiently
high, the welfare of the victims confronting liable injurers is fully restored,
E[⇠(A)]2.1 = 0.

    In sum, although a framework involving an endogenous allocation of the
cost of producing evidence obviously raises some new and interesting issues,
the main insights derived from our benchmark model, the methodology, and
the implication for the design of optimal civil justice institutions remain
relevant. In contrast to the previous literature, the design of the cost alloca-
tion rule takes into account the optimal production of evidence. Our analysis
demonstrates that the optimal mechanism shares some features present in the
American civil litigation system but also underscores other relevant factors
for the design of optimal civil justice institutions. Our results demonstrate
the robustness of our previous findings and the tractability of our framework
to study complex civil justice institutions.


5     Summary and Conclusions
This paper presents the first application of mechanism design to the design of
the civil justice system. The fundamental goals of the civil justice system and
the optimal production of evidence are considered in our design. The opti-
mal civil justice mechanism minimizes the social welfare loss associated with
an accident by providing access to justice to the victims and maximal com-
pensation to the victims confronting liable injurers at the minimum expected
cost of producing evidence. In contrast to previous work, our comprehen-
sive approach allows us to characterize optimal cost-allocation rules under
an optimal production of evidence. We demonstrate that a tort reform that
implements the optimal mechanism in real-world settings is feasible. The
proposed tort reform consists of adding an “Information-Revelation Stage”
to the current civil litigation procedures. In equilibrium, perfect revelation

                                      51
of private information is achieved by producing evidence on just a subset of
legal cases. Out-of-court settlement is achieved with certainty and hence,
the likelihood of trial and the corresponding litigation costs are minimized.
   Important policy implications are derived. We show that the optimal
civil litigation mechanisms have features that parallel many of those in the
American civil justice system but also underscores other relevant factors for
the design of optimal civil justice institutions. In contrast to inefficient real-
world civil litigation procedures, under the optimal civil justice mechanism,
full revelation of private information is achieved by producing evidence in
just a subset of legal cases. We show that the cost-allocation rule applied in
the American civil justice system is not always socially optimal.
   Additional relevant extension can be investigated. For instance, our
framework can be extended to study the optimal civil justice design under
an endogenous negligence rule (see Landeo and Nikitin, 2024). In this set-
ting, the probability of liable injurers will be endogenous and determined by
the social standard of care and the potential injurers’ care-taking decisions
(precaution) given their precaution-cost types. Our methodology is also ap-
plicable to study this more complex environment. In the optimal civil justice
design, truthful revelation of private information is achieved by investigating
just a subset of legal cases. Importantly, under the optimal negligence rule,
only a subset of potential injurers decide to be negligent. These findings
suggest that our results regarding the optimal production of evidence are
robust, and the assumption regarding liability types is appropriate. This,
and other extensions, remain fruitful areas for future research.




                                       52
References
Bebchuk, L.A. 1984. “Litigation and Settlement under Imperfect Informa-
    tion.” RAND Journal of Economics, pp. 404-415.
Daughety, A.F. and Reinganum, J.F. 2014. “The E↵ects of Third-Party
   Funding of Plainti↵s on Settlement.” American Economic Review, pp.
   2552-2566.
Demougin, D. and Fluet, C. 2006. “Preponderance of Evidence.” European
   Economic Review, pp. 963-976.
Engstrom, Nora F. 2014. “Lawyers Lending: Costs and Consequences.”
    DePaul Law Review, pp. 377-446.
Klement, A. and Neeman, Z. 2005. “Against Compromise: A Mechanism
    Design Approach.” Journal of Law and Economics, 21: 285–314.
Landeo, C.M. and Nikitin, M. 2024. “Optimal Negligence Rule Design.”
    Mimeo, University of Alberta and International College of Economics
    and Finance NRU – HSE.
Landeo, C.M. and Nikitin, M. 2018. “Financially-Constrained Lawyers: An
    Economic Theory of Legal Disputes.” Games and Economic Behavior,
    pp. 625-647.
Landeo, C.M., Nikitin, M., and Baker, S. 2007. “Deterrence, Lawsuits and
    Litigation Outcomes under Court Errors.” Journal of Law, Economics
    and Organization, pp. 57-97.
Myerson, R.B. 1981. “Optimal Auction Design.” Mathematics of Opera-
   tions Research, pp. 58-73.
Myerson, R.B. 1979. “Incentive Compatibility and the Bargaining Prob-
   lem.” Econometrica, pp. 61-73.
Png, I.P.L. 1987. “Litigation, Liability, and the Incentives for Care.” Jour-
    nal of Public Economics, pp. 61-85.
Png, I.P.L. 1983. “Strategic Behavior in Suits, Settlement, and Trial.” Bell
    Journal of Economics, pp. 539-550.
Reinganum, J.F. and Wilde, L. 1986. “Settlement, Litigation, and the
    Allocation of Litigation Costs.” RAND Journal of Economics, pp.
    557-566.
Schweizer, U. 1989. “Litigation and Settlement under Two-Sided Incom-
    plete Information.” Review of Economic Studies, pp. 163–177.
Shavell, S. 1982. “Suit, Settlement, and Trial: A Theoretical Analysis
    under Alternative Methods for the Allocation of Legal Costs.” Journal
    of Legal Studies, pp. 55-81.
                                    53
Siegel, R. and Strulovici, B. 2023. “Judicial Mechanism Design.” American
    Economic Journal: Microeconomics, pp. 243–270.
Silva, F. 2019. “If We Confess Our Sins.” International Economic Review,
     pp. 1–24.
Spier, K.E. 1994. “Pretrial Bargaining and the Design of Fee-Shifting
    Rules.” RAND Journal of Economics, pp. 197–214.
Spier, K.E. 1992. “The Dynamics of Pretrial Negotiations.” Review of
    Economic Studies, pp. 93–108.
Vohra, R. 2011. “Mechanism Design: A Linear Programming Approach.”
    Econometric Society Monograph. Cambridge University Press.




                                  54
Appendix A
This Appendix presents the main proofs of propositions and lemmas, the
technical aspects related to the adjustments to the interim probabilities of
investigation, and the formal analysis of Environment 2. (Additional formal
analysis is presented in the Supplementary Material, Appendices B, C, and
D.)

Lemma 1. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). The victim’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint is [pq1 (A) + (1 p)q0 (A)]f¯V p(1 q1 (A))A, 8A 2 [0, Ā].

Proof. By truthfully reporting her type, a victim with type A 2 [0, Ā] gets
pA. No victim has an incentive to report a lower type. When the victim
reports a type A0 > A (A0 2 (0, Ā]), the victim gets A0 instead of A only
when the injurer is liable and investigation does not occur, and gets zero
compensation and pays fine f V when investigation occurs. The victim’s
expected payo↵ is equal to:

[p(1   q1 (A0 ))A0 + (1   p)(1        q0 (A0 ))0] + [pq1 (A0 )(0) + (1     p)q0 (A0 )(0)]

                          [pq1 (A0 ) + (1        p)q0 (A0 )]f V =
            = [p(1    q1 (A0 ))A0 ]     {[pq1 (A0 ) + (1      p)q0 (A0 )]f V },
where the term in brackets represents the expected gains from misreporting,
and the term in curly brackets represents the expected loss from misreport-
ing. Therefore, the incentive-compatibility constraint for a victim with type
A is:
          pA [p(1 q1 (A0 ))A0 ] {[pq1 (A0 ) + (1 p)q0 (A0 )]f V }.
By setting f V 2 [0, f¯V ] as high as possible, the social planner will spend
less resources on verification. Given that the victim has limited financial
resources, f¯V = W V . Therefore,

           pA    [p(1     q1 (A0 ))A0 ]     [pq1 (A0 ) + (1     p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V .
This inequality can be rewritten as:

          p(A0    A)  {pq1 (A0 )A0 + [pq1 (A0 ) + (1           p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V }.

If this constraint holds for a victim with the lowest type (A = 0), then it
also holds for any A 2 (0, Ā]. Therefore, it suffices to consider the victim’s
incentive-compatibility constraint for the lowest damage type: For A = 0
and A0 2 (0, Ā],

             pA0  {pq1 (A0 )A0 + [pq1 (A0 ) + (1          p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V },
                                            55
which can be written as:
             0     p(1       q1 (A0 ))A0   [pq1 (A0 ) + (1          p)q0 (A0 )]f V .
Rearranging terms:

                 [pq1 (A0 ) + (1     p)q0 (A0 )]f V       p(1       q1 (A0 ))A0 .
This constraint should hold 8A0 2 [0, Ā]. Hence, the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint can be expressed in terms of iA: 8A 2 [0, Ā],

                  [pq1 (A) + (1       p)q0 (A)]f¯V        p(1       q1 (A))A.          (1)
⌅
Lemma 2. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). The liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
             R Ā            R Ā
constraint is 0 Ag(A)dA  f¯I 0 q0 (A)g(A)dA.

Proof. When a liable injurer truthfully reports his type, the injurer pays
E[A] and gets an expected payo↵ equal to:
                                  Z Ā
                          E[A] =       Ag(A)dA,
                                              0

By pretending to be non-liable, a liable I gets an expected payo↵ equal to:
                                                  Z Ā
                                       I        I
         E[(1 q0 (A))(0)] E[q0 (A)f ] = f              q0 (A)g(A)dA.
                                                                0

Therefore, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is:
                    Z Ā                    Z Ā
                                          I
                         Ag(A)dA        f        q0 (A)g(A)dA,
                         0                            0

which can be rewritten as:
                  Z Ā               Z Ā
                                   I
                       Ag(A)dA  f        q0 (A)g(A)dA.
                         0                        0
             I        ¯I
By setting f 2 [0, f ] as high as possible, the social planner will economize
on verification e↵orts. Given that the injurer has limited financial resources,
f¯I = W I . Hence, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is:
                    Z Ā                  Z Ā
                         Ag(A)dA  f   ¯I
                                               q0 (A)g(A)dA.                 (2)
                         0                        0

                                             56
⌅

Claim 1. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). The victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint
for a victim of type A 2 [0, Ā] holds as an equality at the interim probabilities
of investigation 0  qi (A)  1 (i = 0, 1).

Proof. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). We show by contradiction. The victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint can be rewritten as (pf¯V +pA)q1 (A)+(1 p)f¯V q0 (A)
pA. Suppose that the constraint holds as a strict inequality, (pf¯V + pA)q1 +
(1 p)f¯V q0 (A) > pA, and that q0 (A) and q1 (A) are the interim probabilities
of investigation, i.e., they minimize E[C] = pq1 (A)C1 (A)+(1 p)q0 (A)C0 (A).
The constraint is not satisfied at q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = 0. Hence, at
least one qi (A) > 0 (i = 0, 1). First, suppose that q1 (A) > 0. It suf-
fices to show that a reduction in q1 (A) still satisfies the constraint. Define
   ⌘ (pf¯V + pA)q1 (A) + (1 p)f¯V q0 (A) pA > 0. Assume that q1 (A) is re-
duced by 2(pf¯V +pA) . The constraint is now pf¯V +pA)(q1 (A) 2(pf¯V +pA) +
(1 p)f¯V q0 (A) = pA+         2 = pA+ 2 > pA. Hence, a reduction in q1 (A) still
satisfies the constraint but reduces the expected cost of producing evidence.
Contradiction follows. Second, suppose q0 (A) > 0. It suffices to show that
a reduction in q0 (A) still satisfies the constraint. Assume that q0 (A) is re-
duced by 2(1 p)f¯V . The constraint is now pf¯V + pA)q1 + (1 p)f¯V (q0 (A)
2(1 p)f¯V
             = pA +         2 = pA + 2 > pA. Hence, a reduction in q0 (A)
still satisfies the constraint but reduces the expected cost of producing evi-
dence. Contradiction follows. We conclude that the incentive-compatibility
constraint for victim of type A holds as an equality. ⌅

Claim 2. Suppose A =        C1 (A)
                            C0 (A)   1 f¯V and p 2 (0, 1). The optimal mecha-
                                                     ¯V
nism is not unique for every p-value when p > f¯Vf+f¯I .

Proof.
    1. We identify the set of interim probabilities of investigation. The maxi-
       mal q0 (A) and q1 (A) such that (3) is satisfied are obtained by evaluat-
                                                        ⇤ The interim⇥ probabil-
       ing (3) at q1 (A) = 0 and q0 (A) = ⇥0, respectively.                    ⇤
       ities of investigation are q0 (A) 2 0, 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) 2 0, A+Af¯V .


    2. We show that the optimal mechanism is not unique for every p when
              ¯V
       p > f¯Vf+f¯I .


                                       57
We structure the continuum of q0 (A) and q1 (A)as follows. We know
that q1 (A) 2 [0, A+Af¯V ]. Define ⌘ q1A(A) such that 2 [0, 1]. Hence,
                                              A+f¯V

q1 (A) = A+Af¯V , and any value of 2 [0, 1] corresponds to a value of
q1 (A) consistent with the set of interim q1 (A).

Given constraint (3),

                 pA            p(f¯V + A) A          pA
   q0 (A) =                                     =          (1         )
              (1 p)f¯V         (1 p)f¯V A + f¯V   (1 p)f¯V

When      = 1, the interim probabilities of investigation are the same
as the ones in the case where A          C1 (A)
                                         C0 (A)  1 f¯V . When      = 0,
the interim probabilities of investigation are the same as the ones in
the case where A < C      1 (A)
                         C0 (A)  1 f¯V . When     2 (0, 1), the interim
probabilities of investigation correspond to the ones that satisfy (3)
and the feasibility constraints.

It is simple to show that for p 2 (0, p̃], the optimal mechanism is unique
for each p. Specifically, q0 (A) and q1 (A) are the same as the ones for
the cases where A        C1 (A)
                         C0 (A)    1 f¯V and A < C      1 (A)
                                                       C0 (A) 1 f¯V . Take
                         ¯V
the case of p = f¯Vf+f¯I . The optimal mechanism is unique for this p-
value: q0 (A) = (1 pA
                    p)f¯V
                          and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. The liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied as equality:
               Z Ā                      Z Ā
                                                   pA
                      Ag(A)dA = f¯I                      g(A)dA.
                0                         0     (1 p)f¯V


                    ¯V
Consider p = f¯Vf+f¯I + ", where " > 0, a small number. If an adjust-
ment 8A 2 [0, Ā], consisting of increasing q0 (A) and decreasing q1 (A)
such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint while
keeping the victim’s incentive-compatibility holding as an equality, is
implemented, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is:
               Z Ā                      Z Ā
                                                   pA
                         Ag(A)dA < f¯I                   g(A)dA
                0                         0     (1 p)f¯V

                                    58
      Hence, the adjustment should be implemented only for A 2 [0, A⇤ ],
      where A⇤ is determined by the incentive-compatibility constraint writ-
                                    ¯V
      ten as an equality for p = f¯Vf+f¯I + ✏:
                                                      Z Ā
                                                             Ag(A)dA =
                                                       0
                    "Z                                             Z Ā                             #
                             A⇤
               ¯I                    pA                                     pA
          =f                               g(A)dA +                                (1    )g(A)dA
                         0        (1 p)f¯V                           A ⇤ (1  p)f¯V
                                                                       p   A
      In the optimal mechanism, q0 (A) =                              1 p f¯V   and q1 (A) = 0 for A 2
                                    p   A
           ⇤
      [0, A ]; q0 (A) =               ) and q1 (A) = A+Af¯V for A 2 (A⇤ , Ā].
                                   1 p f¯V (1
      Therefore, each -value generates an optimal mechanism. Given that
      there are infinitely many -values ( 2 [0, 1]), the optimal mechanism
                               ¯V
      is not unique for p = f¯Vf+f¯I + ✏. A similar approach can be used to
                                       f¯V
      evaluate any p 2              f¯V +f¯I
                                             ,1 .

⌅
Claim 3. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). Across victim’s types, the interim probabilities
of investigation encompass multiple cases.

Proof.
                                                                   ⇣
                                                                     C1 (A)
    1. Suppose that C0 (A)    C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Therefore, A      C0 (A)
        ⌘
       1 f¯V 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Hence, by Proposition 1, the interim probabilities
      of investigation are: When A 2 [0, Ā],
                             8
                             <q0 (A) = 0
                             :q (A) = A                                  < 1.
                                                  1               f¯V +A

                                                                                             ⇣
                                                                                                 C1 (A)
    2. Suppose that C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Therefore, A                                   C0 (A)
        ⌘           ⇣          ⌘
       1 f¯V or A < C  1 (A)
                      C0 (A) 1   f¯V .
                                     ⇣⌘
       (a) Suppose A                1 f¯V . Therefore, by Proposition 1, the
                                         C1 (A)
                                         C0 (A)
                                                                 h⇣
                                                                    C1 (A)
           interim probabilities of investigation are: When A 2     C0 (A)

                                                             59
           ⌘        i
          1 f¯V , Ā ,
                                   8
                                   <q0 (A) = 0
                                   :q (A) =          A
                                                         < 1.
                                         1        f¯V +A
                          ⇣             ⌘                       ⇣         ⌘       ⇣   ⌘
      (b) Suppose A < C       1 (A)         ¯V                    C1 (A)     ¯V  1 p f¯V
                             C0 (A) 1 f . Therefore, C0 (A) 1 f                     p
             ⇣             ⌘         ⇣       ⌘
          or C   1 (A)
               C0 (A)    1 f¯V > 1 p p f¯V .
                          ⇣              ⌘         ⇣       ⌘
            i. Suppose C      1 (A)
                                        1   f¯V  1 p f¯V and
                            C0 (A)                     p
                          n⇣        ⌘       ⇣              ⌘ o
                              1 p ¯V
               A < min           p    f   ,   C1 (A)
                                              C0 (A)     1  f¯V . Therefore, by Propo-
               sitionh 1, then⇣ interim ⌘ probabilities
                                               ⇣             of⌘ investigation
                                                                    o⌘         are: When
                                   1 p ¯V         C1 (A)         ¯V
               A 2 0, min           p     f , C0 (A) 1 f                ,
                                    8
                                    <q0 (A) =        p   A
                                                              1
                                                    1 p f¯V
                                    :q (A) = 0.
                                         1

                            ⇣        ⌘       ⇣   ⌘
            ii. Suppose C    1 (A)
                                   1   ¯V > 1 p f¯V and A  1 p f¯V .
                                       f
                           C0 (A)              p                  p

                                           h the
                Therefore, by Proposition 1,      ⌘ i probabilities of in-
                                              ⇣ interim
                vestigation are: When A 2 0, 1 p p f¯V ,
                                    8
                                    <q0 (A) =        p   A
                                                              1
                                                    1 p f¯V
                                    :q (A) = 0.
                                         1

                            ⇣        ⌘       ⇣     ⌘
           iii. Suppose C    1 (A)
                                   1   ¯V > 1 p f¯V and A > 1 p f¯V .
                                       f
                           C0 (A)               p                        p
                Therefore, by Proposition 1,
                                           ⇣⇣the  interim
                                                  ⌘      ⇣          ⌘ ⌘of in-
                                                            probabilities
                                              1 p ¯V
                vestigation are: When A 2      p    f  ,   C1 (A)
                                                           C0 (A) 1   f¯V ,
                                 8
                                 <q0 (A) = 1
                                 :q (A) = 1             f¯V
                                                               < 1.
                                     1               p(A+f¯V )

⌅

Define A0 (p) ⌘   1 p
                   p     f¯V .
                                             60
             p   A
Claim 4.    1 p f¯V      1 8p 2 (0, 1) () A  A0 (p).
                                                   ⇣         ⌘
Proof. 8p 2 (0, 1),          p   A
                            1 p f¯V    1 if A  f¯V = A0 (p). The same logic
                                                       1 p
                                                        p
                                                ⌘  ⇣
applies to the proof that 8p 2 (0, 1), A  1 p p f¯V = A0 (p) if 1 p p f¯AV  1.
⌅
Proposition 1. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). The interim probabilities of investiga-
tion for a victim of type A are as follows.

  1. If A      C1 (A)
               C0 (A)        1 f¯V , then q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A .

  2. If A <             1 f¯V and A 
                   C1 (A)
                   C0 (A)
                                                       1 p
                                                        p     f¯V = A0 (p), then q0 (A) =
        p   A
       1 p f¯V and q1 (A) = 0.

  3. If A <    C1 (A)
               C0 (A)       1 f¯V and A >     1 p
                                               p       f¯V = A0 (p), then q0 (A) = 1 and
                          f¯V
      q1 (A) = 1      p(f¯V +A)
                                .


Proof. Let E[C] = pq1 (A)C1 (A)+(1 p)q0 (A)C0 (A) be the expected cost of
producing evidence associated with a victim’s of type A. The social planner’s
problem is as follows.
                     min       {pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1           p)q0 (A)C0 (A)}
               q0 (A),q1 (A)

subject to the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint (1) and the feasi-
bility constraints 0  q0 (A)  1 and 0  q1 (A)  1. Claim 1 shows that the
victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint holds as an equality. Hence, the
victim’s incentive compatibility constraint (1) becomes:

                    (pf¯V + pA)q1 (A) + (1         p)f¯V q0 (A) = pA.                 (3)
The optimization problem is now reduced to a minimization with an equality
constraint. Solving for q0 (A):

                                    p(f¯V + A)             pA
                     q0 (A) =                  q1 (A) +          .
                                    (1 p)f¯V            (1 p)f¯V

Substituting q0 (A) in the objective function,
                1
        E[C] = ¯V {q1 [pC1 (A)f¯V           pC0 (A)(f¯V + A)] + pAC0 (A)}.
               f
                                            61
Hence,
                   @E[C]     [pC1 (A)f¯V      pC0 (A)(f¯V + A)]
                           =                                    .
                   @q1 (A)                    f¯V
              ¯V pC0 (A)(f¯V +A)
When pC1 (A)f                     < 0, which is equivalent to A > C       1 (A)   ¯V
                 f¯V                                                     C0 (A) 1 f ,
 @E[C]               pC1 (A)f¯V          ¯V
                                pC0 (A)(f +A)
@q1 (A) < 0; when               f¯V
                                                 = 0, which is equivalent to A =
                                                     f¯V pC0 (A)(f¯V +A)
  C1 (A)
  C0 (A)  1 f¯ , @q1 (A) = 0; and, when
              V  @E[C]                      pC 1 (A)
                                                         f¯V
                                                                         > 0, which is
equivalent to A < C0 (A) 1 f¯ , @q1 (A) > 0.
                      C1 (A)        V   @E[C]



    We now characterize the interim probabilities of investigation for a victim
of type A by incorporating the feasibility constraints 0  q0 (A)  1 and
0  q1 (A)  1 in the analysis. Suppose A > C       1 (A)
                                                  C0 (A)    1 f¯V , @q
                                                                    @E[C]
                                                                       1 (A)
                                                                             < 0.
The interim q1 (A) is a corner solution with q1 (A) taking the maximal value
constrained by q1 (A)  1 and equation (3). Solving for q1 (A), we get q1 (A) =
     1
 pA+pf¯V
          [pA (1 p)f¯V q0 (A)]. Note that q1 (A) takes the maximal value if
q0 (A) = 0: q1 (A) = A+Af¯V . Hence, the interim probabilities of investigation
for a victim of type A are q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = A+Af¯V < 1.

   Suppose that A =        C1 (A)
                           C0 (A)  1 f¯V and therefore, @q
                                                         @E[C]
                                                           1 (A)
                                                                 = 0. Claim 2
shows that, when A =       C1 (A)
                           C0 (A) 1 f¯ , the interim probabilities of investiga-
                                      V
                                                                   ⇥           ⇤
tion q0 (A) and q1 (A) involve infinitely many values, q0 (A) 2 0, 1 p p f¯AV
              ⇥         ⇤
and q1 (A) 2 0, A+Af¯V . Claim 2 also shows that the optimal mechanism is
not unique for p sufficiently high. We consider here the minimum value for
q0 (A) and the corresponding q1 (A) such that constraint (3) and the feasibil-
ity constraints are satisfied. Hence, the interim probabilities of investigation
for a victim of type A are q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = A+Af¯V < 1.

     Suppose now that A < C      1 (A)
                                C0 (A)   1 f¯V , @q
                                                  @E[C]
                                                    1 (A)
                                                          > 0. The interim q1 (A)
is a corner solution with q1 (A) taking the minimal value constrained by
q1 (A)    0 and equation (3). We need to check whether q1 = 0 satisfies
the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint. Evaluating equation (3) at
q1 (A) = 0 and solving for q0 (A) yields q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV . We also need to
verify whether q0 (A) satisfies the feasibility constraints. By Claim 4, q0 (A) =
    p   A                    1 p ¯V
  1 p f¯V  1 when A         p   f = A0 (p). Hence, two mutually-exclusive
                             1 p ¯V
cases are possible. If A      p   f = A0 (p), then the interim probabilities of

                                         62
investigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0. If A > 1 p p f¯V = A0 (p),
then the minimal feasible q1 (A) is the one that corresponds to q0 (A) = 1.
Evaluating equation (3) at q0 (A) = 1 and solving for q1 (A) yields q1 (A) =
        ¯V
1 p(f¯fV +A) . Hence, the interim probabilities of investigation are q0 (A) = 1
                          f¯V
and q1 (A) = 1        p(f¯V +A)
                                < 1. ⌅

                 ¯V
Define p0 ⌘ f¯Vf +Ā .

Claim 5. Ā > A0 (p) () p > p0 .
                                                         ¯V
Proof. If Ā > 1 p p f¯V = A0 (p), solving for p, p > f¯Vf +Ā = p0 . The same
logic applies to the proof that p > p0 =) Ā > A0 (p). ⌅
               p   A
Claim 6.      1 p f¯V     1 8A 2 [0, Ā] if p  p0 .

                           p   A                         p   A
Proof. Given that         1 p f¯V   is increasing in A, 1 p f¯V  1 8A 2 [0, Ā] if
                                                     p   Ā              f¯V      0
this holds for the highest value of A. Hence,       1 p f¯V  1 if p  f¯V +Ā = p .
⌅
Proposition 2. The interim probabilities of investigation for Environments
1 and 2 across victim’s types are as follows.
   1. Environment 1: If C0 (A)         C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the interim
      probabilities of investigation are: q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1
      8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8p 2 (0, 1).

   2. Environment 2: If C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and Ā < C          1 (A)
                                                                        C0 (A)
      1 f¯V 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the interim probabilities of investigation are as
      follows.
       (a) p-Segment 1: If p 2 (0, p0 ], then the interim probabilities of in-
           vestigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā].
       (b) p-Segment 2: If p 2 (p0 , 1), then the interim probabilities of in-
           vestigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, A0 (p)],
                                                     f¯V
            and q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1         p(A+f¯V )
                                                            8A 2 (A0 (p), Ā].


Proof.
                                           63
    1. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Therefore, A          C1 (A)
                                                                 C0 (A)   1 f¯V
       is satisfied 8A 2 [0, Ā]. By Proposition 1, the interim probabilities of
       investigation are: q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā]. The
       interim probabilities of investigation hold 8 p 2 (0, 1).

    2. Suppose C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and Ā < C 1 (A)
                                                      C0 (A) 1 f¯V . There-
       fore, A    C1 (A)
                         1 f¯V is never satisfied. By Proposition 1, if A 
                    C0 (A)
                                                      ¯V
        1 p
         p    f¯V = A0 (p) or equivalently, if p  f¯Vf +A , then the interim prob-
       abilities of investigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV  1 by Claim 5, and
                                                                      ¯V
       q1 (A) = 0; if A > 1 p f¯V = A0 (p), or equivalently, if p > ¯Vf , then
                             p                                        f +A
       the interim probabilities of investigation are q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) =
              f¯V
       1 p(A+    f¯V )
                       < 1. When p  p0 , Ā  A0 (p) by Claim 4. Therefore,
       every A 2 [0, Ā] is lower than or equal to A0 . When p > p0 , Ā > A0 (p)
       by Claim 4. Therefore, A 2 [0, Ā] can be greater than or lower than
       A0 . Hence, two mutually-exclusive p-segments are possible:
        (a) p-Segment 1: If p 2 (0, p0 ], the interim probabilities of investi-
            gation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV  1 by Claim 5, and q1 (A) = 0
            8A 2 [0, Ā].
       (b) p-Segment 2: If p 2 (p0 , 1): The interim probabilities of investi-
           gation are as follows.
                                                   p   A
               i. If A  A0 (p), then q0 (A) =    1 p f¯V    1 by Claim 5, and
                  q1 (A) = 0.
                                                                       f¯V
              ii. If A > A0 (p), then q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1     p(A+f¯V )
                                                                              > 0.

       The interim probabilities of investigation in Environment 2 hold 8A 2
       [0, Ā] and 8 p 2 (0, 1).
⌅


Adjustments to the Interim Probabilities of Investigation
This section discusses technical aspects of the application of adjustments
to the interim probabilities of investigation to satisfy the liable injurer’s
                                        R Ā               R Ā
incentive-compatibility constraint (2), 0 Ag(A)dA  f¯I 0 q0 (A)g(A)dA.
First, we define the two possible adjustment procedures, and denote them
as Procedures 1 and 2.

                                        64
Definition 2. Procedure 1 consists of an increase in q0 (A) and a decrease in
q1 (A) until the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint (2) is sat-
isfied as an equality while keeping the victim’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint (1) satisfied as an equality. Procedure 2 consists of an increase in
q0 (A) without decreasing q1 (A) until the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint (2) is satisfied as an equality while keeping the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint (1) satisfied.

    In Environment 1, the interim q0 (A) is always zero. Hence, constraint
(2) is never satisfied and an adjustment is required. Given that the interim
q1 (A) > 0, Procedures 1 and 2 can be implemented. In Environment 2, even
when q0 (A) > 0, f I is limited to f¯I . Therefore, constraint (2) might not
be satisfied and an adjustment might be required. When p 2 (0, p0 ] and
A 2 [0, Ā], although the interim q0 (A) < 1, the interim q1 (A) = 0. Hence,
only Procedure 2 can be implemented. When p 2 (p0 , 1], an adjustment
can be applied only for relatively low A-values. Specifically, when A 2
(0, A0 (p)], even when the interim q0 (A) < 1, the interim q1 (A) = 0. Hence,
only Procedure 2 can be implemented. When A 2 (A0 (p), Ā], although the
interim q1 (A) > 0, the interim q0 (A) = 1. Hence, neither Procedure 1 nor
Procedure 2 can be implemented. The next corollary summarizes this result.

Corollary 1. Procedures 1 and 2 can be applied in Environment 1. Only
Procedure 2 can be applied in Environment 2.

    Second, we study the efficiency of the adjustment procedures. Consider a
victim of type A. Remember that E[C] = pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1 p)q0 (A)C0 (A)
represents the expected cost of producing evidence associated with a vic-
tim of type A. Let uI0|1 = f¯I q0 (A) represent the liable injurer’s expected
                                                                 @uI
loss for misreporting associated with a victim of type A, @q0 0|1   (A) represent
the change in the liable injurer’s expected loss for misreporting due to an
                        @E[C]
increase in q0 (A), and @q 0 (A)
                                 represent the change in the expected cost of pro-
ducing evidence due to an increase in q0 while keeping the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint satisfied. Next, we define the efficiency of Procedure
i, ⌦i (A) (i = 1, 2).

Definition 3. Consider a victim of type A. Efficiency of Procedure i is
                      @uI
                         0|1
                      @q0 (A)
defined as ⌦i (A) =    @E[C]    .
                      @q0 (A)



    Intuitively, a high ⌦i (A) indicates a high increase in uI0|1 and/or a low
increase in E[C] due to an increase in q0 (A). Hence, the procedure with
                                       65
the highest ⌦i (A) exhibits the highest level of efficiency in incentivizing the
liable injurer through an increase in q0 (A). Lemma 3 characterizes ⌦1 (A)
and ⌦2 (A).
                                          f¯I
                  ⌦1 (A) =                                   .
                            (1 p)C0 (A) (1 p) C1 (A)      A
                                                          1+ ¯V
                                                            f


                                             f¯I
                           ⌦2 (A) =                   .
                                      (1     p)C0 (A)

    Both ⌦1 (A) and ⌦2 (A) apply to Environment 1, and only ⌦2 (A) applies
to Environment 2. Lemma 3 shows that when C0 (0) > C1 (0), ⌦1 (A) > 0
exists 8A 2 [0, Ā].

Lemma 3. (1) Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A) 8A 2 ([0, Ā]. If and only if C0 (0) >
C1 (0), ⌦1 (A) > 0 exists. (2) If and only if C0 (0) > 0, ⌦2 (A) > 0 exists.

                                                                         @uI
                                                                           0|1
                                                                      0 (A)
Proof. We first characterize ⌦1 and ⌦2 . By Definition 4, ⌦i (A) = @q@E[C]  .
                                                                         @q0 (A)
                                                 @uI
E[C] = pq1 (A)C1 (A) + (1    p)q0 (A)C0 (A) and @q0 0|1   ¯I
                                                    (A) = f . Consider Proce-
dure 1.
                    @E[C]    @E[C]    @E[C] @q1 (A)
                           =        +                .
                   @q0 (A)   @q0 (A) @q1 (A) @q0 (A)
The direct e↵ect of an increase in q0 (A), DE, is
                            @E[C]
                     DE =           = (1       p)C0 (A) > 0.
                            @q0 (A)
                              @E[C]
                                      = pC1 (A).
                              @q1 (A)
Given equation (3), (pf¯V + pA)q1 (A) + (1        p)f¯V q0 (A) = pA,
                           @q1 (A)          (1 p)
                                   =                  .
                           @q0 (A)         p 1 + f¯AV

Therefore, the indirect e↵ect of an increase in q0 (A), IE, is
                                             "              #
                   @E[C] @q1 (A)                   (1 p)
            IE =                  = pC1 (A)                    < 0.
                  @q1 (A) @q0 (A)                p 1 + f¯AV

                                       66
                                            @E[C]
The overall e↵ect of an increase in q0 (A), @q 0 (A)
                                                     , is:
                                       "                     #                    "              #
@E[C]                                        (1 p)                                    C1 (A)
        = (1 p)C0 (A)+pC1 (A)                                    = (1 p) C0 (A)                      .
@q0 (A)                                     p 1 + f¯AV                                1 + f¯AV

Hence,
                                                     f¯I
                      ⌦1 (A) =               h                               i.
                                                                 C1 (A)
                                  (1       p) C0 (A)
                                                                 1+ ¯A
                                                                     V
                                                                    f




   Consider Procedure 2.
                         @E[C]
                                 = (1            p)C0 (A) = DE.
                         @q0 (A)

Hence,
                                                     f¯I
                               ⌦2 (A) =                       .
                                            (1       p)C0 (A)


   1. Suppose C0 (A)         C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā] and C0 (0) > C1 (0). We show that

                                                      f¯I
                       ⌦1 (A) =                  h                            i >0
                                                                  C1 (A)
                                   (1       p) C0 (A)
                                                                  1+ ¯A
                                                                    fV



      exists 8A 2 [0, Ā].


         (a) When A > 0,
                                       ✓             ◆
                                                A              fV
                                 0<        1 + ¯V          = ¯V   < 1.
                                               f             f +A

            Therefore,
                                                            C1 (A)
                                        C0 (A) > ⇣                      ⌘,
                                                           1 + f¯AV



                                             67
           by C0 (A)     C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā]. Hence,

                                                         f¯I
                         ⌦1 (A) =                 h                           i >0
                                                                    C1 (A)
                                       (1    p) C0 (A)
                                                                    1+ ¯A
                                                                        V
                                                                       f


           exists.

       (b) When A = 0, 1 + f¯AV         = 1. Hence,

                                                       f¯I
                          ⌦1 (A) =                                            >0
                                        (1        p)(C0 (0)         C1 (0))
           exists if and only if C0 (0) > C1 (0).


    2. Suppose C0 (0) > 0. We show that ⌦2 (A) > 0 exists.

                                                       f¯I
                                ⌦2 (A) =                        >0
                                             (1        p)C0 (A)
                                                           0 (A)
      exists 8A 2 [0, Ā] if and only if C0 (0) > 0 and @C@A     > 0 by assump-
      tion.
⌅
    Intuition follows. In Procedure 1, the e↵ect of an increase in q0 (A) on
E[C] involves a positive direct e↵ect through q0 (A) and a negative indirect
e↵ect through q1 (A). The direct e↵ect more than o↵sets the indirect e↵ect
and hence, the overall e↵ect is positive. Lemma 3 also shows that when
C0 (0) > 0, ⌦2 > 0 exists 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Intuitively, in Procedure 2, the overall
e↵ect of an increase in q0 (A) on E[C] involves just a positive direct e↵ect
through q0 (A).
    Next, we compare the efficiency of both procedures for a victim of type
A in Environment 1. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0)
and C0 (0) > 0,

                                f¯I                                   f¯I
     ⌦1 (A) =                                             >                    = ⌦2 (A).
                (1   p)C0 (A)     (1    p) C1 (A)
                                               A
                                                               (1     p)C0 (A)
                                              1+ ¯V
                                                   f


In words, for a victim of type A, Procedure 1 is the most efficient adjustment
procedure.
                                             68
   Third, we provide formal analysis of the application of Procedures 1
and 2 across victim’s types, and identify the efficiency-superior procedure in
Environment 1.52
    Proposition 3 identifies a sufficient condition under which the applica-
tion of Procedure 1 should start at the lowest value of A, and shows that
Procedure 2 should always start at the lowest value of A.53

Proposition 3. (1) Suppose C0 (A)                        C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā] and C0 (0) >
             C (A)
            @ C1 (A)
C1 (0). If @A0
                   0 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the implementation of Procedure 1
should start at the lowest value of A. (2) Suppose C0 (0) > 0. Tthe imple-
mentation of Procedure 2 should start at the lowest value of A.

Proof.
                                                                                                 C (A)
                                                                                             @ C1 (A)
   1. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and                                     0
                                                                                                 @A        0
      8A 2 [0, Ā]. ⌦1 (A) can be written as:

                                                             f¯I
                       ⌦1 (A) =                                                        .
                                                                       C1 (A)
                                        (1   p)C0 (A) 1
                                                                   C0 (A) 1+ ¯A
                                                                              V f

                
                           C1 (A)
      Denote 1                               as      (A).
                       C0 (A) 1+ ¯A
                                  V f


                                       @⌦1 (A)
                                               =
                                         @A
                    ✓                ◆              ✓                                      ◆
           f¯I   1               1      @ (A)    1                             1                 @C0 (A)
      =                                       +                                                          ,
          1 p C0 (A)          ( (A))2    @A      (A)                       (C0 (A))2               @A
               0 (A)
      where @C@A     > 0, by assumption of the model, and
                                                                   
           @ (A)          @C 1 (A)
                           C0 (A)           1            C1 (A)                     1        1
                 =                                                                      2   ¯         >0
            @A              @A           1 + f¯AV        C0 (A)           1 + f¯AV          fV

 52 Remember that only Procedure 2 can be implemented in Environment 2.

 53 Proposition 3 shows that the sign of @⌦1 (A)            is ambiguous. Therefore, Procedure 1
                                           @A
could also start at the highest value of A. For consistency of the methodology across
                                                                   @⌦1 (A)
procedures, we decided to impose a condition such that               @A
                                                                           < 0.

                                                    69
                    C (A)
                   @ C1 (A)
         because       0
                       @A
                                                              1 (A)
                                 0, by assumption. Hence, @⌦@A     < 0.


    2. Suppose C0 (0) > 0.

                                                            f¯I
                                         ⌦2 (A) =                    .
                                                     (1     p)C0 (A)

                                    @⌦2 (A)          f¯I @C@A
                                                            0 (A)

                                            =                     < 0,
                                      @A           (1 p)(C0 (A))2
                    0 (A)
         because @C@A     > 0 by assumption of the model.
⌅
                                                                          C1 (A)
                                                                      @
     Intuition follows. In Environment 1, when C@A  0 (A)
                                                           0 8A 2 [0, Ā],
⌦1 (A) increases when A decreases. Across environments, ⌦2 (A) increases
when A decreases. Hence, the social planner should start the application of
Procedure i (i = 1, 2) at the lowest levels of A where Procedure i is more
efficient. The next remark summarizes this result.
     Proposition 4 identifies a necessary and sufficient condition for the ef-
ficiency superiority of Procedure 1 across victim’s types in Environment 1
where both procedures can be applied.

Proposition 4. Suppose C0 (A)                       C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0),
                           C (A)
                       @ C1 (A)
C0 (0) > 0 and              0
                           @A        0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. If and only if C0 (A)               C0 (0) <
C1 (A)f¯V
 A+f¯V
         8A 2 [0, Ā], Procedure 1 is more efficient than Procedure 2 across
victim’s types.

Proof. Suppose C0 (A)                   C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0), C0 (0) > 0,
 C (A)
@ C1 (A)                                            ¯V
    0
    @A
                                   1 (A)f
          0 and C0 (A) C0 (0) < CA+   f¯V
                                                                       2 (A)
                                           8A 2 [0, Ā]. Given that @⌦@A     < 0,
it suffices to compare ⌦2 (A) for A = 0 and ⌦1 (A) for A 2 [0, Ā].

                                         f¯I                              f¯I
            ⌦1 (A) =                h                       i>                     = ⌦2 (0)
                                                C1 (A)f¯V        (1       p)C0 (0)
                       (1       p) C0 (A)        A+f¯V

                                                   ¯V
if and only if C0 (A)                        1 (A)f
                                   C0 (0) < CA+  f¯V
                                                     . ⌅

                                                   70
                                                                           ¯V
    Intuition follows. In Environment 1, when C0 (A) C0 (0) < CA+      1 (A)f
                                                                           f¯V
                                                                               for
A 2 [0, Ā], the efficiency of Procedure 1 for any A 2 [0, Ā] is strictly higher
than the highest level of efficiency of Procedure 2 (which occurs when A = 0).
Hence, the social planner should exhaust the implementation of Procedure
1, i.e., should increase q0 (A) and reduce q1 (A) across victim’s types, before
applying Procedure 2. The next corollary summarizes this result.
Corollary 2. In Environment 1 where Procedures 1 and 2 can be applied,
Procedure 1 should be applied first.

Proposition 5. Suppose C0 (A)         C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and
p 2 (0, 1). There are three p-segments: p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p̃], p-
Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄], and p-Segment 2.2 where p 2 (p̄, 1).

Proof. Suppose C0 (A)       C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and p 2 (0, 1).
   1. We show that p 2 (0, 1) is divided into two main p-segments, denoted
      as p-Segment 1 and p-Segment 2. To accomplish this, we need to
      show that there exists a unique p-threshold, denoted as p̃ such that
      0 < p̃ < 1.
       (a) In the main text of the paper, we define p̃ as the p-threshold such
           that, after exhausting Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], the liable injurer’s
           incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied as an equality.
                      Z Ā                Z Ā ⇣
                                       ¯I         p̃ ⌘ A
                           Ag(A)dA = f                     g(A)dA..          (5)
                        0                  0     1 p̃ f¯V
       (b) We need to show that p̃ < p0 . Otherwise, Procedure 1 could not
           be exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Equation (5) can be rewritten as:
                     Z Ā                          Z
                                        f¯ ⇣ p̃ ⌘ Ā
                                          I
                          Ag(A)dA = ¯V                 Ag(A)dA.
                      0                f    1 p̃ 0
           Hence,
                                            f¯V
                                     0 < ¯V      = p̃.
                                         f + f¯I
           Given that f¯I > Ā by assumption,
                                            f¯V
                                     p̃ < ¯V     = p0 ,
                                          f + Ā
           where p0 < 1.


                                       71
                                                                           p
                                                                      @(
                                                                      1 p      )
    (c) Finally, we need to show the uniqueness of p̃. Given that @p
        is strictly increasing in p, the threshold p̃ such that, after ex-
        hausting Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], the liable injurer’s incentive-
        compatibility constraint holds as an equality is unique.
   Hence, p 2 (0, 1) is divided into two main p-segments, p-Segment 1
   where p 2 (0, p̃] and p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p̃, 1).


2. We show that p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p̃, 1) is divided into two addi-
   tional p-segments, p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄] and p-Segment 2.2
   where p 2 (p̄, 1). To accomplish this, we need to show that there exists
   a unique p-threshold, denoted as p̄, such that p̃ < p̄ < 1.
    (a) In the main text of the paper, we define p̄ as the p-value such
        that, after exhausting the implementation of Procedure 1 for A 2
        [0, A0 (p̄)], the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
        evaluated at the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation is
        satisfied as an equality:
        Z Ā                    Z A0 (p̄) ⇣                Z Ā
                                            p̄ ⌘ A
               Ag(A)dA = f¯I                        g(A)dA+          0g(A)dA ,
          0                      0       1 p̄ f¯V            A0 (p̄)
                                                                           (6)
        where A0 (p̄) = 1 p̄ p̄ f¯V . We show now that there exists a unique
        p̄ such that p0 < p̄ < 1. Therefore, p-Segment 2 is divided into
        two p-segments, denoted as p-Segment 2.1 and p-Segment 2.2.
        Given that A0 (p) is a strictly decreasing function of p, there is a
        one-to-one correspondence between A0 (p) and p. Therefore, we
        can show the existence and uniqueness of p̄ by showing that there
        exists a unique A0 (p̄) = 1 p̄ p̄ f¯V < Ā.

                          Rx
        Define (x) ⌘ f¯I 0 A  x g(A)dA for x 2 (0, Ā]. First, we show that
        limx!0 (x) = 0. Given that dg(A)  dA     0, g(A)  g(x) 8A  x.
        Therefore, 8A  x:
                               Z x                      Z x
                                    A                        A
           lim (x) = lim f¯I          g(A)dA  lim f¯I         g(x)dA =
           x!0         x!0       0 x           x!0        0 x
                          ✓Z x        ◆
                       ¯         A                     x2
                = lim f I
                                   dA g(x) = f¯I lim      g(x) = 0.
                   x!0       0 x                 x!0 2x




                                       72
    Given that         (x) > 0, 8x 2 (0, Ā],

                                     lim    (x) = 0.
                                     x!0

              R Ā
    Hence,       0
                     Ag(A)dA > limx!0 (x) = 0. Second,
                     R Ā A           ¯I R Ā
      (Ā) = f¯I      0 Ā
                            g(A)dA = fĀ 0 Ag(A)dA. Therefore,
    R Ā
     0
           Ag(A)dA <  (Ā). Third, we show that there exists a unique
             0
                                  R Ā
    x = A (p̄) < Ā such that 0 Ag(A)dA = (x). We show that
      (x) is a di↵erentiable function on x and therefore a continuous
    function, and a strictly increasing function on x. By assumption
    @g(A)
      @A     0,
                              ✓ Z x                      ◆
                 @ (x)     ¯I           A
                        =f               2
                                           g(A)dA + g(x)
                  @x                0 x
                          ✓ Z x                       ◆
                                   A
                      f¯I            2
                                       g(x)dA  + g(x)   =
                                0 x
                                   ✓           ◆
                                            x2
                         = f¯I g(x) 1            > 0.
                                           2x2
    Therefore, there exists a unique value of x = A0 (p̄) < Ā such that
                     Z Ā                   Z A0 (p̄)
                                                          A
                            Ag(A)dA = f¯I                         g(A)dA.
                       0                     0          A0 (p̄)

    Hence, there exists a unique p̄.

(b) We need to show that p̄ > p0 . Otherwise, Procedure 1 could
                                                f¯V
    be exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā]. A0 (p̄) = (1 p̄)
                                            p̄      . Therefore, p̄ =
        f¯V
    f¯V +A0 (p̄)
                 . A0 (p̄) < Ā, by Part 2(a) of this proof. Hence,

                                    f¯V         f¯V
                            p̄ = ¯V     0
                                            > ¯V     = p0 ,
                                 f + A (p̄)   f + Ā

    by Claim 4. Given that p̃ < p0 by Part 2(a) of this proof, p̄ > p̃
    and hence, p̄ > p0 by Part 1(b) of this proof.


                                     73
                                                        ¯V                 ¯V
        (c) We show that p̄ < 1. A0 (p̄) = (1 p̄)
                                              p̄
                                                  f                   f
                                                    . Hence, p̄ = f¯V +A 0 (p̄) < 1.




      Hence, p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p̃, 1) is divided into two p-segments,
      p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄] and p-Segment 2.2 where p 2 (p̄, 1).
⌅

Proposition 6. Suppose C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], Ā < C      1 (A)
                                                              C0 (A)   1 f¯V
and p 2 (0, 1). There are three p-segments: p-Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̃],
p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ] and p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1).

Proof. Suppose C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], Ā <                C1 (A)
                                                                 C0 (A)    1 f¯V and
p 2 (0, 1).
    1. We show that p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p0 ] is divided into two p-
       segments, p-Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̃] and p-Segment 1.2 where
       p 2 (p̃, p0 ]. To accomplish this, we need to show that there exists a
       unique p-threshold, denoted as p̌, such that 0 < p̌ < p0 .
       (a) In the main text of the paper, we define p̌ as the p-threshold
           such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint,
           evaluated at the interim probabilities of verification, is satisfied
           as an equality.
                        Z Ā                   Z Ā ⇣
                                                         p̌ ⌘ A
                               Ag(A)dA = f¯I                     g(A)dA.         (7)
                         0                      0       1 p̌ f¯V


            Equation (7) can be rewritten as:
                       Z Ā                        Z
                                          f¯ ⇣ p̌ ⌘ Ā
                                            I
                               Ag(A)dA = ¯V            Ag(A)dA.
                         0               f    1 p̌ 0

            Hence,
                                             f¯V
                                      0 < ¯V      = p̌.
                                          f + f¯I
            Given that f¯I > Ā by assumption,

                                             f¯V
                                      p̌ < ¯V     = p0 ,
                                           f + Ā
                                        74
        where p0 < 1. Note that p̌ = p̃. Part 2(c) of Proposition 5 also
        hold here and therefore, the p-threshold is unique.

        Hence p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p0 ] is divided into two main
        p-Segments, denoted as p-Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̃] and p-
        Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ].

   (b) We need to show that p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ] is not di-
       vided into additional p-segments. To accomplish this goal, we
                                                                0
       need to show that there does not exist a threshold p where p̃ <
        0
       p < p0 such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility con-
       straint, evaluated at the interim probabilities of investigation or at
       the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation after applying
       Procedure 2, is satisfied as an equality.

        When p 2 (p̃, p0 ], the liable injurer’s incentive compatibility con-
        straint, evaluated at the interim probabilities of investigation, is
        satisfied as a strict inequality:
                     Z Ā               Z Ā ⇣
                                                  p ⌘A
                            Ag(A)dA <                    g(A)dA,
                      0                   0      1 p f¯V
                                        @( 1 p p )
        by the definition of p̃ and        @p        > 0. Therefore, there does
                            0
        not exist p̃ < p < p0 such that the liable injurer’s incentive-
        compatibility constraint, evaluated at the interim probabilities of
        investigation or at the adjusted interim probabilities of investiga-
        tion after applying Procedure 2, is satisfied as an equality.

        Hence, p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ] is not divided into addi-
        tional p-segments.


   Hence, p 2 (0, p0 ] is divided into two p-segments, p-Segment 1.1 where
   p 2 (0, p̃] and p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ].


2. We show that p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1) is not divided into addi-
   tional p-segments. To accomplish this goal, we need to show that there
                                 00              00
   does not exist a threshold p where p0 < p < 1 such that the liable
   injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint, evaluated at the interim
   probabilities of investigation or at the adjusted interim probabilities of
   investigation after applying Procedure 2, is satisfied as an equality.
                                   75
     Suppose p 2 (0, 1). By the definition of p̃,
     Z Ā                      Z A0 (p) ⇣                    Z Ā ⇣
                                             p̃ ⌘ A                    p̃ ⌘ A
            Ag(A)dA =                                g(A)dA+                    g(A)dA,
       0                        0           1 p̃ f¯V          A0 (p) 1   p̃ f¯V
                    p̃   A
     where         1 p̃ f¯V    < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], by p̃ < p0 and Claim 5.

     Suppose p 2 (p0 , 1).
              Z A0 (p) ⇣                        Z Ā ⇣
                               p̃ ⌘ A                     p̃ ⌘ A
                                       g(A)dA +                    g(A)dA <
                 0            1 p̃ f¯V           A0 (p) 1   p̃ f¯V
                          Z A0 (p) ⇣                    Z Ā
                                        p ⌘A
                      <                        g(A)dA +         1g(A)dA,
                           0           1 p f¯V           A0 (p)
       @( 1 p p )                    p̃   A
     by @p        > 0 and           1 p̃ f¯V   < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā].

     As a result, when p 2 (p0 , 1), the liable injurer’s incentive compatibility
     constraint, evaluated at the interim probabilities of investigation, is
     satisfied as a strict inequality:
            Z Ā                    Z A0 (p) ⇣                    Z Ā
                                                  p ⌘A
                   Ag(A)dA <                             g(A)dA +         1g(A)dA.
             0                       0           1 p f¯V           A0 (p)

                                                            00
     Therefore, there does not exist p0 < p < 1 such that the liable
     injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint, evaluated at the interim
     probabilities of investigation or at the adjusted interim probabilities of
     investigation after applying Procedure 2, is satisfied as an equality.

     Hence, p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1) is not divided into additional
     p-segments.
⌅

Lemma 4. Suppose C0 (A)           C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and p 2
(0, p̃]. There exists a unique 0  A1 (p) < Ā.

Proof. Suppose C0 (A)         C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and p 2
(0, p̃]. In the main text of the paper, we define A1 (p) as the A-threshold
such that, after exhausting Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā] and increasing q0 (A)
                                                  76
to 1 by applying Procedure 2 8A 2 [0, A1 (p)], the liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint holds as an equality:
  Z Ā                    Z A1 (p)                     Z Ā      ⇣ p ⌘A
         Ag(A)dA = f¯I                1g(A)dA +                            g(A)dA .   (8)
    0                         0                             A1 (p) 1 p f¯V

We show the existence and uniqueness of A1 (p) and that A1 (p) < Ā.


  1. Suppose p 2 (0, p̃]. We show that, after exhausting the application
     of Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
     constraint is still not satisfied when p 2 (0, p̃) and hence, Procedure 2
     should be applied starting with the lowest A-value.

        Given that p < p0 , by Claim 4, A < A0 (p) and therefore, Procedure 1
        can be exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā].


         (a) Suppose p 2 (0, p̃). At the adjusted interim probabilities of veri-
             fication,
                        Z Ā                        Z Ā ⇣
                                                                p ⌘A
                                  Ag(A)dA > f¯I                        g(A)dA,
                          0                             0      1 p f¯V
                                                    p
                                            @   1       p
             by the definition of p̃ and        @p           > 0.

         (b) Suppose p = p̃. At the adjusted interim probabilities of verifica-
             tion,
                       Z Ā                Z Ā ⇣
                                        ¯I         p ⌘A
                            Ag(A)dA = f                   g(A)dA,
                        0                   0     1 p f¯V
             by the definition of p̃.


  2. Suppose p 2 (0, p̃]. We show that there exists a unique A1 (p) < Ā
     such that Procedure 2 is applied by increasing q0 (A) to 1 only for A 2
     [0, A1 (p)], and the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is
     satisfied as an equality.



                                           77
Define   (y) for y 2 [0, Ā] as follows:
                           Z y                   Z Ā
                                                                  pA
            (y) ⌘ f¯I              g(A)dA +                              g(A)dA .
                               0                   y     (1        p)f¯V

Note that
                         Z A1 (p)                 Z Ā
                                                                 pA
          (y) = f¯I                    g(A)dA +                         g(A)dA
                           0                           A1 (p) (1  p)f¯V

when y = A1 (p). We show y = A1 (p) < Ā exists and is unique.

(a) Suppose p 2 (0, p̃). We show the existence and uniqueness of
    A1 (p) such that 0 < A1 (p) < Ā.
             Z Ā                                        Z Ā
                                                                     pA
                    Ag(A)dA > (0) = f¯I                                    g(A)dA,
               0                                             0    (1 p)f¯V
                   Z Ā                                          Z Ā
                          Ag(A)dA < (Ā) = f¯I                          g(A)dA = f¯I
                    0                                             0
    and                                  
                        @ (y)                         py
                              = f¯I g(y)                    g(y) > 0.
                         @y                        (1 p)f¯V


      (y) is di↵erentiable and therefore is continuous. It is also strictly
    increasing in y. Hence, there exists a unique y = A1 (p) 2 (0, Ā)
    such that
    Z Ā                  Z A1 (p)           Z Ā
                                                         pA
         Ag(A)dA = f¯I              1g(A)dA+                    g(A)dA .
     0                      0                  A1 (p) (1  p)f¯V


(b) Suppose p = p̃. We show the existence and uniqueness of A1 (p)
    and that A1 (p) = 0. Evaluate (y) at y = 0.
                               Z 0                    Z Ā
                                                                    pA
               (0) = f¯I                g(A)dA +                          g(A)dA .
                                   0                     0       (1 p)f¯V


                                             78
                                    R Ā
            By the definition of p̃, 0 Ag(A)dA = (0) when p = p̃. There-
            fore,
               Z Ā                Z 0            Z Ā
                                                         pA
                    Ag(A)dA = f¯I        1g(A)dA +              g(A)dA .
                0                    0              0 (1  p)f¯V
            Hence, A1 (p̃) = 0.
   ⌅
Lemma 5 Suppose C0 (A)            C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and p 2
(p̃, p̄]. There exists a unique 0  A2.1 (p) < Ā.

Proof. Suppose C0 (A)            C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and p 2 (p̃, p̄].

    In the main text of the paper, we define A2.1 (p) as the A-threshold such
that, after exhausting Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, A2.1 (p)], the liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint holds as an equality:
  Z Ā                h Z A2.1 (p)                    Z Ā              i
                   ¯I                 pA
       Ag(A)dA = f                          g(A)dA  +           0g(A)dA   . (9)
    0                    0         (1 p)f¯V            A2.1 (p)

We show the existence and uniqueness of A2.1 (p) and that 0  A2.1 (p) < Ā.

  1. Suppose p 2 (p̃, p0 ]. By Claim 4, A  A0 (p) and therefore, Procedure
     1 can be exhausted 8A 2 [0, Ā].

       By the definition of p̃,
                      Z Ā               Z Ā
                                                                          p̃A
                           Ag(A)dA = f¯I                                           g(A)dA
                             0                       0           (1         p̃)f¯V

                                                             p
                                                 @
       Given that p 2 (p̃, p0 ], p > p̃. By          @p
                                                         1       p
                                                                       > 0:
                      Z Ā                                           Z Ā
                                pA                                               p̃A
                f¯I                   g(A)dA > f¯I                                        g(A)dA.
                       0     (1 p)f¯V                                 0     (1     p̃)f¯V
       The last inequality can be rewritten as:
                         Z Ā                      Z Ā
                 f¯I p                      f¯I p̃
                              Ag(A)dA >                 Ag(A)dA.                                    (1A)
             (1 p)f¯V 0                  (1 p̃)f¯V 0
                                            79
Define    (z) for z 2 [0, Ā].
                                            Z z
                                  (z) ⌘            Ag(A)dA.
                                               0

                      R Ā
 (0) = 0,    (Ā) =    0
                             Ag(A)dA.

                                  @ (z)
                                        = zg(z) > 0.
                                   @z
  (z) is di↵erentiable and therefore,                 (z) is continuous. It is also
strictly increasing in z. Therefore,
                                                        Z Ā
               f¯I p                             f¯I p̃
                              (0) = 0 <                      Ag(A)dA.         (2A)
             (1 p)f¯V                          (1 p̃)f¯V 0

Inequality (1A) can be expressed as:
                                                     Z Ā
                   f¯I p                      f¯I p̃
                                  (Ā) >                  Ag(A)dA.
                 (1 p)f¯V                   (1 p̃)f¯V 0

By (1A) and (2A), there exists a unique z = A2.1 (p) 2 (0, Ā) such that
                                                        Z Ā
              f¯I p               2.1            f¯I p̃
                             (A         (p)) =               Ag(A)dA.
            (1 p)f¯V                           (1 p̃)f¯V 0

By the definition of         (z) and z = A2.1 (p),
                 Z A2.1 (p)                    Z Ā
           f¯I p                        f¯I p̃
                            Ag(A)dA =               Ag(A)dA,
         (1 p)f¯V 0                   (1 p̃)f¯V 0

which can be written as:
        Z A2.1 (p) ⇣                      Z Ā ⇣
    ¯ I               p ⌘A            ¯ I         p̃ ⌘ A
    f                        g(A)dA = f                   g(A)dA.
         0           1 p f¯V               0     1 p̃ f¯V

Therefore, by the definition of p̃
            Z Ā                          Z A2.1 (p) ⇣
                                                          p ⌘A
                   Ag(A)dA = f¯I                                 g(A)dA.
             0                             0             1 p f¯V

                                          80
  Hence, there exists a unique 0 < A2.1 (p) < Ā such that
   Z Ā                      h Z A2.1 (p)                            Z Ā               i
                                               pA
          Ag(A)dA = f¯I                              g(A)dA +                    0g(A)dA .
     0                          0           (1 p)f¯V                  A2.1 (p)




2. Suppose p 2 (p0 , p̄]. By Claim 4, Ā > A0 (p) and therefore, Procedure
   1 can be exhausted only 8A 2 [0, A0 (p)].

  We need to show that A2.1 (p)  A0 (p) when p 2 (p0 , p̄] and therefore,
  Procedure 1 can be exhausted 8A 2 [0, A2.1 (p)]. As a result, Part 1 of
  this proof also holds when p 2 (p0 , p̄].

  To accomplish this goal, we first show that A2.1 (p) < A0 (p) when
  p 2 (p0 , p̄). Second, we show that A2.1 (p) = A0 (p) when p = p̄.

                        ¯V
  Define m ⌘ (1 p)
                p
                   f
                             = A0 (p) and            (m) as:
                                              Z m
                                                       A
                                 (m) ⌘ f¯I               g(A)dA,
                                                 0     m

  where (m) is the right-hand side of the liable injurer’s incentive com-
  patibility constraint when Procedure 1 is exhausted 8A 2 [0, A0 (p)].

  By assumption, g(A) is non-decreasing in A. Therefore,
                                    Z v
                 @ (m)    ¯I              A
                        = f g(m)           2
                                             g(A)dA
                   @m                 0  m
                              Z m
                           1                    f¯I g(m)
             f¯I g(m) 1      2
                                   Ag(A)dA =             > 0.
                           m 0                       2
                 @ (m)   @ (m) @m                        f¯I g(m) f¯V
                       =          =                                   < 0.
                   @p     @m @p                               2    p2

   (a) Suppose p 2 (p0 , p̄). By Part 1 of this proof, when p 2 (p̃, p0 ],
                 Z Ā                         Z A2.1 (p) ⇣
                                                                p ⌘A
                        Ag(A)dA = f¯I                                  g(A)dA.
                  0                              0             1 p f¯V
                                            81
                        (m)
               Given @ @p   < 0, when p 2 (p0 , p̄),
                        Z Ā                    Z A2.1 (p) ⇣
                                                                 p ⌘A
                               Ag(A)dA = f¯I                            g(A)dA <
                         0                       0              1 p f¯V
                                          Z A0 (p) ⇣
                                                        p ⌘A
                                  < f¯I                        g(A)dA.
                                           0           1 p f¯V
               Hence, A2.1 (p) < A0 (p) when p 2 (p0 , p̄).

         (b) Consider p = p̄. By the definition of p̄,
             Z Ā                 Z A0 (p̄) ⇣                  Z Ā
                              ¯I                p̄ ⌘ A
                  Ag(A)dA = f                           g(A)dA+          0g(A)dA .
              0                     0          1 p̄ f¯V          A0 (p̄)

               By the definition of A2.1 (p), when p = p̄,
               Z Ā                Z A2.1(p̄) ⇣                  Z Ā
                                ¯I               p̄ ⌘ A
                    Ag(A)dA = f                          g(A)dA+            0g(A)dA .
                0                   0           1 p̄ f¯V          A2.1 (p̄)

               Hence, A2.1 (p) = A0 (p) when p = p̄.

⌅
Lemma 6. Suppose C0 (A)          C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and p 2
(p̄, 1). There exists a unique A2.2 (p) such that A0 < A2.2 (p) < Ā.

Proof. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0) and p 2 (p̄, 1).
In the main text of the paper, we define A2.2 (p) as the A-threshold such
that, after exhausting Procedure 1 for A 2 [0, A0 (p)] and increasing q0 (A)
to 1 by applying Procedure 1 to A 2 (A0 (p), A2.2 (p)], the liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint holds as an equality:
                              Z Ā
                                   Ag(A)dA =
                                      0

         Z (1 p)f¯V                           Z A2.2 (p)                  Z Ā
                p         pA
= f¯I                           g(A)dA +                       1g(A)dA +               0g(A)dA .
           0           (1 p)f¯V                  (1    p)f¯V
                                                       p                    A2.2 (p)
                                                                     (10)
We show existence and uniqueness of A2.2 (p) and that A0 < A2.2 (p) < Ā,
                 f¯V
where A0 = (1 p)
              p      .
                                               82
1. Define v and        (v) for p 2 (0, 1) and v 2 (0, Ā], respectively, as follows.

                                      (1    p)f¯V
                                 v⌘               = A0 (p).
                                            p
                                     Z v            Z Ā
                                 ¯ I      A
                           (v) ⌘ f          g(A)dA +      g(A)dA .
                                       0 v             v

   (a) We show that, after exhausting the application of Procedure 1
       8A 2 [0, A0 (p)], the liable injurer’s incentive compatibility con-
       straint is still not satisfied, and hence, Procedure 1 should be
       applied to A > A0 (p).

       To accomplish this goal, we show that inequality (3A) holds:
             Z Ā                          Z (1 p) f¯V
                                                p               pA
                        Ag(A)dA > f¯I                                  g(A)dA.      (3A)
                  0                         0             (1     p)f¯V
       By the definition of p̄:
                      Z Ā                      Z (1 p̄) f¯V
                                                     p̄           p̄A
                             Ag(A)dA = f¯I                               g(A)dA.            (6)
                       0                         0             (1 p̄)f¯V

       We show that the right-hand-side of equation (6) is decreasing in
       p for p 2 (p̄, 1).
            ⇣ R (1 p)f¯V                ⌘                       ⇣ R            ⌘
                                                                     v
           @ f¯I 0 p        pA
                         (1 p)f¯V g(A)dA                       @ f¯I 0 A
                                                                       v g(A)dA  @v
                                                          =                             .
                                 @p                                    @v          @p
       By assumption, g(A) is non-decreasing in A. Therefore,
                 ⇣R             ⌘
                @ 0 A
                     v
                          g(A)dA             Z v
                        v                         A
                                   = g(v)           2
                                                      g(A)dA
                         @v                   0   v
                                  Z v
                                      A         1
                       g(v) g(v)        2
                                          dA = g(v) > 0.
                                   0  v         2
       By the definition of v,
                                           @v         f¯V
                                              =           < 0.
                                           @p          p2
                                            83
    Therefore,
                         ⇣ R (1 p)f¯V                 ⌘
                        @ f¯I 0 p        pA
                                      (1 p)f¯V
                                               g(A)dA
                                                                               < 0.
                                                  @p

    Hence, when p 2 (p̄, 1),
                Z Ā                             Z (1 p) f¯V
                                                      p           pA
                       Ag(A)dA > f¯I                                    g(A)dA.
                 0                                0            (1 p)f¯V


(b) We show that, if q0 (A) is increased to 1 by applying Procedure
                     f¯V     ⇤
    1 to A 2 (1 p) p     , Ā , the liable injurer is satisfied as a strict
    inequality and hence, q0 (A) should be increased to 1 by applying
                                 f¯V
    Procedure 1 to A > (1 p)   p     but A < Ā.

    To accomplish this goal, we show that inequality (4A) holds:
                                         Z Ā
                                                  Ag(A)dA <
                                             0

               Z (1 p)f¯V                                      Z Ā
                       p           pA
      < f¯I                              g(A)dA +                               1g(A)dA . (4A)
                 0              (1 p)f¯V                         (1    p)f¯V
                                                                       p


    By the definitions of v and                   (v), inequality (4A) can be expressed
    as:                    Z            Ā
                                             Ag(A)dA <          (v).
                                    0

    Evaluating         (v) at v = Ā:
                           Z Ā                          Z Ā
                                                                A
                                  Ag(A)dA < f¯I                    g(A)dA.
                            0                              0    Ā

    We show that (v) is di↵erentiable and therefore continuous, and
    that (v) strictly decreasing in v:
                        ✓ Z v                           ◆
          @ (v)      ¯I         A          v
                  =f             2
                                   g(A)dA + g(v) g(v) =
            @v              0 v            v
                                             84
                                                     Z v
                                                               A
                                       =       f¯I                g(A)dA < 0.
                                                      0        v2
          Therefore, 8v 2 (0, Ā]
             Z Ā                          ✓Z v                            Z Ā                ◆
                                                      A
                    Ag(A)dA < f¯I                       g(A)dA +                  g(A)dA             =   (v),
              0                                 0     v                     v

          which can be written as:
                                  Z Ā
                                                          Ag(A)dA <
                                                 0

                          Z (1 p)f¯V                                       Z Ā
                    ¯I
                                  p           pA
                 <f                                 g(A)dA +                                 g(A)dA .
                            0              (1 p)f¯V                             (1   p)f¯V
                                                                                     p




2. We show that there exists a unique u = A2.2 (p) 2 A0 (p), Ā such that

   Z Ā                          Z (1 p)f¯V                                         Z A2.2 (p)
                                           p            pA
          Ag(A)dA = f¯I                                       g(A)dA +                               g(A)dA .
    0                              0                 (1 p)f¯V                          (1    p)f¯V
                                                                                             p




                                ⇥ (1 p)f¯V         ⇤
  Define     (u) for u 2               p       , Ā :
                                                     Z u
                                      (u) ⌘ f¯I                        g(A)dA.
                                                          (1   p)f¯V
                                                               p


            ¯V                                       R Ā
    ( (1 p)
         p
            f
              ) = 0 and            (Ā) = f¯V             (1   p)f¯V   g(A)dA.
                                                               p




  By assumption, g(A) > 0. Therefore,

                                        @ (u)
                                              = f¯I g(u) > 0.
                                         @u
    (u) is di↵erentiable and therefore continuous, and is strictly increasing
  in u.


                                                     85
        Hence, there exists a unique u = A2.2 (p) 2 A0 (p), Ā such that

              Z Ā                            Z (1 p)f¯V
                                                         p             pA
                     Ag(A)dA = f¯I                                            g(A)dA +       (A2.2 (p)) ,
                0                                0                (1    p)f¯V

        which can be rewritten as:
         Z Ā                           Z (1 p)f¯V                                    Z A2.2 (p)
                                  ¯I
                                                     p          pA
                Ag(A)dA = f                                           g(A)dA +                       g(A)dA .
          0                                  0               (1 p)f¯V                   (1   p)f¯V
                                                                                             p




Environment 2: Optimal Production of Evidence – Step
2
Remember that Environment 2 occurs when C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and
Ā < C  1 (A)
      C0 (A)   1 f¯V . We characterize the optimal probabilities of investiga-
tion.
    Proposition 2 shows that there are two main p-segments in Environment
2, p-Segment 1 where p 2 (0, p0 ] and p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1). It
also shows that the interim probabilities of investigation are as follows. p-
Segment 1: q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV  1 and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. p-Segment 2:
           p   A                                          0
q0 (A) =  1 p f¯V  1 and q1 (A) = 0 for A 2 [0, A (p)], and q0 (A) = 1 and
                ¯V                                    ¯ V
q1 (A) = 1 p(A+f
                  f¯V )
                        for A 2 (A0 (p), Ā]. p0 = f¯Vf +Ā and A0 (p) = 1 p p f¯V .
    We first verify whether the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint (2) is satisfied:
                           Z Ā                               Z Ā
                                  Ag(A)dA  f¯I                        q0 (A)g(A)dA.                              (2)
                            0                                     0

Given that q0 (A) > 0 across p- and A-values but f I is restricted to f¯I ,
constraint (2) might be satisfied only for sufficiently high p-values.54 Hence,
adjustments to the interim probabilities of investigation to increase q0 (A)
while keeping the victim’s incentive compatibility constraint (1) satisfied
might need to be implemented for low p-values. Finally note that, when

    54 Note that q (A) =     p          A
                  0         1 p        f¯V
                                              1 for p 2 (0, p0 ] across A-values and for p 2 (p0 , 1) and
                                                                                                     @( 1 p p )
low A-values, and q0 (A) = 1 for p 2 (p0 , 1) and high A-values. Note also that                         @p
                                                                                                                  > 0.

                                                             86
p 2 (0, p0 ], q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā], and when p 2 (p0 , 1], q1 (A) = 0 8A 2
[0, A0 (p)]. Therefore, only Procedure 2 should be applied in those cases.55

   Corollary 5. In p-Segment 1 when A 2 [0, Ā] and p-Segment 2 when
A 2 [0, A0 (p)], only Procedure 2 can be implemented.

5.0.1    Characterization of p-Segments
This section shows that the optimal production of evidence depends on the
probability of liable injurers p. Proposition 6 demonstrates that there are
three mutually-exclusive p-segments in Environment 2 that di↵er in the im-
plementation of the adjustment procedures, and hence, in the optimal proba-
bilities of investigation: p-Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̌], p-Segment 1.2 where
p 2 (p̌, p0 ] and p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1). It also shows that p̌ = p̃.

Proposition 6. Suppose C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], Ā < C      1 (A)
                                                              C0 (A)   1 f¯V
and p 2 (0, 1). There are three p-segments: p-Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̃],
p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ] and p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1).

   Next, we provide an intuitive discussion. Appendix A presents a formal
proof.

Characterization of p̌: p-Segments 1.1 and 1.2
Suppose p 2 (0, p0 ]. This section characterizes p̌ and demonstrates that p-
Segment 1 is divided into two segments: p-Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̌] and
p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̌, p0 ].
   Define p̌ as the p-value such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint evaluated at the interim probabilities of verification is satisfied as
an equality:
                   Z Ā                    Z Ā ⇣
                                                     p̌ ⌘ A
                          Ag(A)dA = f¯I                      g(A)dA,                 (7)
                     0                       0      1 p̌ f¯V

which can be rewritten as:
               Z Ā                     Z
                               f¯ ⇣ p̌ ⌘ Ā
                                 I
                    Ag(A)dA = ¯V            Ag(A)dA.
                0             f    1 p̌ 0

  55 Remember that Procedure 2 consists of increasing q (A) without reducing q (A) until
                                                       0                      1
constraint (2) is satisfied as an equality while keeping constraint (1) satisfied.

                                             87
Hence,
                                                 f¯V
                                         p̌ = ¯V      ,
                                              f + f¯I
               ¯V
where 0 < f¯Vf+f¯I < 1. Finally note that

                                               f¯V
                                       p̌ = ¯V      = p̃,
                                            f + f¯I

and p̃ < p0 , by Proposition 5.
    Hence, p̃ divides p-Segment 1 into two main segments p-Segments, p-
Segment 1.1 where p 2 (0, p̃] and p-Segment 1.2 where p 2 (p̃, p0 ]. Propo-
sition 6 verifies that p-Segment 1.2 and p-Segment 2 are not divided into
additional p-segments.

5.0.2     Optimal Probabilities of Investigation

p-Segment 1.1
Suppose p 2 (0, p̃]. The interim probabilities of investigation are q0 (A) =
   p   A
  1 p f¯V  1 and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. In case of requiring adjustments,
only Procedure 2 could be applied. At the interim probabilities of verifica-
tion:           Z Ā               Z Ā ⇣
                                            p ⌘A
                     Ag(A)dA > f¯I                  g(A)dA,
                 0                  0     1 p f¯V
                                         p
                                1 p@
by the definition of p̃ and     @p    > 0. Therefore, Procedure 2 should be
implemented. Starting at the lowest value of A, the social planner should
increase q0 (A) to 1 without reducing q1 (A) only for A 2 [0, A1.1 (p)], where
A1.1 (p) is the A-threshold such that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint holds as an equality:
   Z Ā                     h Z A1.1 (p)                  Z Ā     ⇣ p ⌘A          i
          Ag(A)dA = f¯I                      1g(A)dA +                      g(A)dA   .
    0                          0                           A1.1 (p) 1 p f¯V

Hence, A1.1 (p) = A1 (p). Lemma 4 verifies that there exists a unique A1 (p)
and that A1 (p) < Ā. Lemma 4 also verifies that there exists a unique A1 (p̃)
and that A1 (p̃) = 0. Therefore, when p = p̃,
                    Z Ā                       Z Ā ⇣
                                                         p ⌘A
                           Ag(A)dA = f¯I                        g(A)dA,
                     0                          0       1 p f¯V
                                                88
which is aligned with the definition of p̃.
    Hence, the optimal production of evidence for p-Segment 1.1 involves the
following optimal probabilities of investigation: q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 0
for A 2 [0, A1 (p)], and q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0 for A 2 (A1 (p), Ā],
                  ¯V
where p̃ = f¯Vf+f¯I and A1 (p) is implicitly defined using the liable injurer’s
                                                               R Ā
incentive-compatibility constraint holding as an equality, 0 Ag(A)dA =
   ⇥ R A1 (p)        R Ā                     i
f¯I 0         g(A)dA+ A1 (p) 1 p p f¯AV g(A)dA . The optimal social welfare loss
function for p-Segment 1.1 is:
              SW L1.1 = H + E[C(A)]1.1 + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
                               Z Ā
                             =      Ag(A)dA+
                                         0
            Z A1 (p)                        Z Ā      ✓            ◆
                                                               p      A
+(1   p)                C0 (A)g(A)dA +                                   C0 (A)g(A)dA + 0 + 0.
              0                               A1 (p)       1       p f¯V

p-Segment 1.2
Suppose p 2 (p̃, p0 ]. The interim probabilities of investigation are q0 (A) =
  p   A
 1 p f¯V  1 and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. In case of requiring adjustments,
only Procedure 2 could be applied.
   Given that p > p̃, at the interim probabilities of verification:
                 Z Ā               Z Ā ⇣
                                            p ⌘A
                      Ag(A)dA < f¯I                   g(A)dA
                  0                   0    1 p f¯V
                                     p
                                 @
                                1 p
by the definition of p̃ and     @p  > 0. Therefore, the implementation of
Procedure 2 is not required. At the optimal probabilities of investigation,
the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied as a strict
inequality.
   Hence, the optimal production of evidence for p-Segment 1.2 involves
the following optimal probabilities of investigation: q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and
                                               ¯V
q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā], where p0 = f¯Vf +Ā . The optimal social welfare loss for
p-Segment 1.2 is:
           SW L1.2 = H + E[C(A)]1.2 + +✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
        Z Ā                 Z Ā ✓       ◆
                                      p      A
      =      Ag(A)dA + (1 p)                ¯ V
                                                C0 (A)g(A)dA + 0 + 0.
         0                    0     1   p   f
                                                89
p-Segment 2
Suppose p 2 (p0 , 1). The interim probabilities of investigation are: q0 (A) =
   p   A                                    0
  1 p f¯V < 1 and q1 (A) = 0 for A 2 [0, A (p)], and q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) =
        ¯ V
                                                 f¯V
1       f                0                 0
            ¯V for A 2 (A (p), Ā], where p = ¯V
      p(A+f )
                                                      and A0 (p) = 1 p f¯V .
                                                                 f +Ā                p
In case of requiring adjustments, only Procedure 2 could be applied for A 2
[0, A0 (p)].
    Given that p > p̃, at the interim probabilities of verification:
        Z Ā                  Z A0 (p) ⇣                      Z Ā
                                              p ⌘A
                 Ag(A)dA <                           g(A)dA +         1g(A)dA,
             0                 0             1 p f¯V           A0 (p)

                                         p
                                1 p @
by the definition of p̃ and     @p    > 0. Therefore, the implementation of
Procedure 2 is not required. At the optimal probabilities of investigation,
the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied as a strict
inequality.
    Hence, the optimal production of evidence for p-Segment 2 involves the
following optimal probabilities of investigation: q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) =
                                                               f                ¯V
0 for A 2 [0, A0 (p)], and q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1        p(A+f¯V )
                                                                      for A 2
                                                    ¯V
(A0 (p), Ā], where A0 (p) =  1
                                p
                                  p
                                    f¯V and p0 = f¯V +Ā . The optimal social
                                                   f

welfare loss for p-Segment 2 is:

                     SW L2 = H + E[C(A)]2 + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] =
             Z Ā                             Z A0 (p) ✓             ◆
                                                                 p     A
        =            Ag(A)dA + (1       p)                             ¯  C0 (A)g(A)dA+
                 0                              0            1       p fV
      Z Ā                              Z Ā 
                                                              f¯V
  +              C0 (A)g(A)dA + p                1          ¯V
                                                                   C1 (A)g(A)dA + 0 + 0.
       A0 (p)                            A0               p(f + A)

    Table 2 summarizes the optimal production of evidence for each p-segment
in Environment 2. Similar to Environment 1, our analysis suggests that the
optimal production of evidence involves just a subset of legal cases.
    When the probability of liable injurers is sufficiently low (p  p0 ), the
victim’s gains from misreporting are low. Therefore, the production of evi-
dence just in legal cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable suffices to
incentivize the victim and the liable injurer to truthfully report their types.
When the probability of liable injurers is sufficiently high (p > p0 ), the vic-
tim’s gains from misreporting are high and these gains increase with the

                                                     90
                  Table 2: Optimal Production of Evidence – Environment 2

           p-Segment              A-Segmenta          Optimal q0 (A)     Optimal q1 (A)
           p-Segment 1.1         A 2 [0, A1 (p)]               1               0
                                                           p        A
           p 2 (0, p̃]          A 2 (A1 (p), Ā]         1 p       f¯V
                                                                               0
                                                          p         A
           p-Segment 1.2           A 2 [0, Ā]           1 p       f¯V
                                                                               0
           p 2 (p̃, p0 ]
                                                          p         A
           p-Segment 2           A 2 [0, A0 (p)]         1 p       f¯V
                                                                               0
                                                                                 f¯V
           p 2 (p0 , 1)         A 2 (A0 (p), Ā]               1         1   p(f¯V +A)


Note: a A1.1 (p) = A1 (p) 8p 2 [0, p̃].


reported damages. If the victim untruthfully reports relatively low damages,
the gains from misreporting are lower. Therefore, the production of evidence
just in legal cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable suffices to in-
centivize the victim and the liable injurer to truthfully report their types.
If the victim untruthfully reports relatively high damages, the gains from
misreporting are higher. Therefore, the production of evidence in the legal
cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable and legal cases where the
injurer reports to be liable is required to incentivize the victim to truthfully
report her type.


Proof of Proposition 12. Although A2.1 is a function of p and ↵1 , i.e.,
A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), to simplify the notation, we use A2.1 in (most parts of) the proof.
To simplify the notation, we also denote E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] as S. Finally,
we denote @C@A   i (A)
                       as Ci0 (A) (i = 0, 1).

Consider first the characterization of the optimal ↵0 first. The S function
does not depend on ↵0 . Hence, across cases, any ↵0 2 [0, 1] is optimal.

Consider now the characterization of the optimal ↵1 . The proof consists of
several steps.
                           @S
   1. Evaluate the sign of @↵ 1
                                . By the Chain Rule,

                                                   @S
                                                       =
                                                   @↵1
                                                          ⇣
               A2.1                                              A2.1 ⌘
       =            pC0 (A2.1 )g(A2.1 )    p(1 + ⇤↵1 )                    C1 (A2.1 )g(A2.1 ) ⇥
               f¯V                                             A2.1 + f¯V

                                                 91
                            Z Ā          ⇣
                 @A2.1                           A ⌘
               ⇥       +             p⇤                C1 (A)g(A)dA,
                  @↵1         A2.1             A + f¯V
where
                                   R Ā    A
        @A2.1                                  C (A)g(A)dA
                                     A2.1 A+f¯V 1
              =                                                                   .
         @↵1            A2.1 p ¯I                        2.1
                        f¯V 1 p
                                f + (1           ↵1 ) ˆA
                                                       1 ¯V C1 (A
                                                                  2.1 ) g(A2.1 )
                                                      A +f

@S
@↵1   can be rewritten as:
                              Z Ā
                   @S                  A
                       =p                ¯V C1 (A)g(A)dA⇥
                   @↵1          A2.1 A + f
          2                                                                  3
               A2.1                            A2.1
               f¯V
                     C0 (A2.1 ) (1 + ⇤↵1 ) A2.1        C (A2.1 )
                                                  +f¯V 1
        ⇥4       A 2.1   p ¯I               A 2.1                 + ⇤5 =
                           f   + (1 ↵   )            C   (A 2.1 )
                  f¯V  1 p            1    2.1
                                          A +f   ¯V    1

                          Z Ā
                                      A
                     =p                 ¯V C1 (A)g(A)dA
                           A2.1 A + f
                    ⇣ 2.1                                       ⌘
                    A
                          C   (A 2.1
                                     )      A2.1
                                                   C   (A 2.1
                                                              )
                      ¯
                      f V   0              2.1
                                         A +f   ¯V   1
                    A2.1 p ¯I                          2.1               +
                    f¯V 1 p
                            f + (1      ↵1 ) ˆA      C1 (A2.1 )
                                             A1 +f¯V
                      ⇣ 2.1                                    ⌘
                                          A2.1
                     ⇤ Af¯V 1 p p f¯I + A2.1  ¯
                                             +f V C 1 (A 2.1
                                                             )
                  + A2.1  p ¯I                         2.1               .
                     f¯V 1 p
                             f + (1             ↵1 ) ˆA
                                                      1 ¯V C1 (A
                                                                 2.1 )
                                                    A +f
Consider the numerator of the expression in brackets. Analyze the sign
of the first term in parenthesis:
✓ 2.1                                     ◆
  A           2.1     A2.1          2.1       A2.1
       C 0 (A     )          C 1 (A     )   >      (C0 (A2.1 ) C1 (A2.1 )) >
   f¯V              A + f¯
                     2.1   V                  f¯V
                  A2.1
               > ¯V (C0 (A2.1 ) (1 + ⇤)C1 (A2.1 )) > 0.
                  f
                        ⇣ 2.1                                        ⌘
                         A            2.1        A2.1          2.1
Therefore, the term       ¯
                          f V  C 0 (A     )     2.1
                                               A +f  ¯V C 1 (A     )   < 0. This
term can be⇣ larger or smaller than the positive⌘      second    term   of the nu-
             A2.1 p ¯I        A2.1          2.1
merator, ⇤ f¯V 1 p f + A2.1 +f¯V C1 (A ) , by absolute value. Hence,
             @S
the sign of @↵ 1
                 is ambiguous, and depends on ⇤. In other words, any
sufficient conditions that solve this ambiguity should include ⇤.


                                          92
                                                                 @S
2. Define ⇤0 (↵1 ) as the ⇤-function that results from equating @↵ 1
                                                                      to zero.
   ⇤0 (↵1 ) will be used to find sufficient conditions and characterize ↵1 in
   Step 6 of this proof.

          @S
   Equate @↵ 1
               to zero, solve for ⇤ and denote this function of ↵1 as ⇤(↵1 ):

                                         A2.1             A2.1
                                         f¯V
                                              C0 (A2.1 )        C (A2.1 )
                                                       A2.1 +f¯V 1
                          0
                      ⇤ (↵1 ) =           A2.1 p ¯I     A2.1
                                                                          .
                                          f¯V 1 p
                                                  f + A2.1     C (A2.1 )
                                                           +f¯V 1




                                     0
3. Evaluate the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) . ⇤0 (↵1 ) depends on ↵1 through A2.1 (p, ↵1 )
   only. By the Chain Rule,

                                  @⇤0 (↵1 )   @⇤0 (↵1 ) @A2.1
                                            =                 .
                                    @↵1        @A2.1 @↵1
                                           R Ā   A
     @A2.1                                            C (A)g(A)dA
                                            A2.1 A+f¯V 1
           =                                                                                < 0.
      @↵1                 A2.1   p   ¯I                        A2.1
                          f¯V    1 p f + (1             ↵1 ) A2.1     C (A2.1 )
                                                                  +f¯V 1
                                                                                  g(A2.1 )
                                              0
   Evaluate now the sign of @⇤ (↵1 )  0
                             @A2.1 . ⇤ (↵1 ) can be rewritten as:

                                     (A2.1 + f¯V )C0 (A2.1 ) f¯V C1 (A2.1 )
                    ⇤0 (↵1 ) =                                                .
                                     (A2.1 + f¯V ) 1 p p f¯I + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )

   Define        ⌘ 1 p p f¯I .
                                     @⇤0 (↵1 )
                                               =
                                      @A2.1
     [C0 (A2.1 ) + (A2.1 + f¯V )C00 (A2.1 ) f¯V ][(A2.1 + f¯V )                   + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]
   =
                          [(A2.1 + f¯V ) + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]2
             [      + f¯V C10 (A2.1 )][(A2.1 + f¯V )C0 (A2.1 ) f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]
                                                                               .
                               [(A2.1 + f¯V ) + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]2
   This expression can be rewritten as:

                                                  @⇤0 (↵1 )
                                                            =
                                                   @A2.1
                                                   93
             C1 (A2.1 )f¯V (C0 (A2.1 ) + ) + (A2.1 + f¯V )2 C00 (A2.1 )
       =                                                                +
                          [(A2.1 + f¯V ) + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]2
                               (A2.1 + f¯V )f¯V C00 (A2.1 )C1 (A2.1 )
                           +
                                [(A2.1 + f¯V ) + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]2
                          [(A2.1 + f¯V )f¯V C10 (A2.1 )(C0 (A2.1 ) +                )]
                                                                                         .
                               [(A2.1 + f¯V ) + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )]2
Terms in the first two lines are positive and the term in brackets (third
                                             0
line) is negative. Therefore, the sign of @⇤   (↵1 )
                                            @A2.1 is ambiguous. Hence,
                      0
the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) is ambiguous.

                                                      0
Solve the ambiguity of the sign of @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) by findings sufficient condi-
                 0                                           0
tions on C (A). Take the numerator of @⇤ (↵1 )
                                       @A2.1 , equate it to zero, and
           0   2.1
solve for C1 (A ). Therefore, when

                                             C10 (A2.1 ) =

                             C1 (A2.1 )f¯V (C0 (A2.1 ) + 1 p p f¯I )
                                                                     +
                            (A2.1 + f¯V )f¯V (C0 (A2.1 ) + p f¯I )1 p
                               0                                            0
      (A   2.1       ¯V 2
                 + f ) C0 (A       ) 1 p f + (A + f )f¯V C0 (A2.1 )C1 (A2.1 )
                                   2.1   p   ¯I       2.1        ¯V
  +                                                                           ,
                             (A2.1 + f¯V )f¯V (C0 (A2.1 ) + p f¯I )   1 p
  0
@⇤ (↵1 )
 @A2.1 = 0. Define µ as

                                    C1 (A)f¯V (C0 (A) + 1 p p f¯I )
                            µ=                                      +
                                   (A + f¯V )f¯V (C0 (A) + p f¯I )
                                                                 1 p

                 (A + f¯V )2 C00 (A) 1 p p f¯I + (A + f¯V )f¯V C00 (A)C1 (A)
            +                                                                .
                             (A + f¯V )f¯V (C0 (A) + p f¯I )     1 p


                                                                                0
        1 (A)
When @C@A     > µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], the numerator of @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                  @A2.1 is negative.
                     0                                0
Therefore, @⇤ (↵1 )
            @A2.1 < 0 and hence,
                                 @⇤ (↵1 )
                                   @↵1    > 0.



                                              94
                                                                         0
               1 (A)
       When @C@A     < µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], the numerator of @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                         @A2.1 is positive.
                           0                              0
       Therefore, @⇤ (↵1 )
                   @A2.1 > 0 and hence,
                                        @⇤ (↵1 )
                                          @↵1    < 0.

                                                                         0
               1 (A)
       When @C@A     = µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], the numerator of @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                         @A2.1 is equal to
                                   0                           0
       zero. Therefore, @⇤ (↵1 )
                         @A2.1 = 0 and hence,
                                              @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                @↵1    = 0.


             ¯ 0 ⌘ max↵ ⇤0 (↵1 ) and ⇤0 ⌘ min↵ ⇤0 (↵1 ).
   4. Define ⇤         1                      1



                                          @S
                                        @ @↵
   5. Evaluate the sign of               @⇤ .
                                             1



                                 @S          Z Ā
                               @ @↵ 1
                                                        A
                                        =p                ¯V C1 (A)g(A)dA⇥
                                @⇤               A2.1 A + f
                       
                               (A2.1 + f¯V ) 1 p p f¯I + f¯V C1 (A2.1 )
                   ⇥                                                    > 0.
                           (A2.1 + f¯V ) p f¯I + (1 ↵1 )f¯V C1 (A2.1 )
                                            1 p


   6. Find sufficient conditions and characterize the optimal ↵1 . Steps 3–
      5 of this proof are used to characterize three mutually-exclusive ⇤-
      segments, Cases 1–3.56

       Case 1: If ⇤ < ⇤0 , then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition
                                                                                   @S
                                                                                 @ @↵
       of ⇤0 . Therefore, @↵
                          @S
                             1
                               < 0, by the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ) and             @⇤
                                                                                      1
                                                                                          > 0.
       Hence, the optimal ↵1 = 1.

       Case 2: If ⇤ > ⇤   ¯ 0 , then ⇤ > ⇤0 (↵1 ) 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition
                                                                         @S
          ¯ 0 . Therefore, @S > 0, by the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ) and @ @↵1 > 0.
       of ⇤                @↵1                                          @⇤
       Hence, the optimal ↵1 = 0.

                            ¯ 0 ], then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) for some ↵1 2 [0, 1] and/or
       Case 3: If ⇤ 2 [⇤0 , ⇤
             0
       ⇤ > ⇤ (↵1 ) for some ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the ambiguity of the sign of

                                                                     0
  56 In Cases 1 and 2, we do not use the result about the sign of @⇤ (↵1 ) . Hence, additional
                                                                    @↵1
                                                     @⇤0 (↵1 )
conditions to solve the ambiguity of the sign of       @↵1
                                                               are not required. Additional
conditions are only required in Case 3.

                                                    95
@⇤0 (↵1 )                                               0

  @↵1   due to the ambiguity of the sign of @⇤     (↵1 )
                                                 @A2.1   (Step 3 of this
proof). Hence, additional sufficient conditions are required.

                                                                            0
Next, we characterize three mutually-exclusive cases such that @⇤@↵(↵1 1 )
is lower than, equal to or greater than zero, Cases 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c).
We use the conditions on µ derived in Step 3 of this proof.

                                            0                           0
           1 (A)
 (a) If @C@A     > µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], then, @⇤ (↵1 )
                                          @A2.1 < 0. Therefore,
                                                                @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                                  @↵1    >
     0.

        i. If ⇤ = ⇤0 , then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) for ↵1 2 (0, 1] and ⇤ = ⇤0 (↵1 )
           for ↵1 = 0, by the definition of ⇤0 . Therefore, @↵ @S
                                                                 1
                                                                   < 0 for
                              @S
           ↵1 2 (0, 1] and @↵1 = 0 for ↵1 = 0, by the definition of
           ⇤0 (↵1 ). Hence for ⇤ = ⇤, arg min↵1 2[0,1] {S} = 1.

                   ¯ 0 , then ⇤ > ⇤0 (↵1 ) for ↵1 2 [0, 1) and ⇤ = ⇤0 (↵1 )
        ii. If ⇤ = ⇤
            for ↵1 = 1, by the definition of ⇤ ¯ 0 . Therefore, @S > 0 for
                                                                  @↵1
                              @S
            ↵1 2 [0, 1) and @↵  1
                                  = 0 for ↵1 = 1, by the definition of
             0                     ¯ arg min↵ 2[0,1] {S} = 0.
            ⇤ (↵1 ). Hence for ⇤ = ⇤,        1



                         ¯ 0 ), then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) for some ↵1 2 [0, 1] and ⇤ >
       iii. If ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
            ⇤ (↵1 ) some other ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definitions of ⇤0 and ⇤
              0                                                             ¯ 0.
                         @S                                  @S
            Therefore, @↵1 < 0 for some ↵1 2 (0, 1] and @↵1 > 0 for some
            other ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ). Given that S
            is a continuous function of ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the Extreme Value
            Theorem, an optimal ↵1 exists. Next, we evaluate whether
            there exists corner and/or interior optimal ↵1 .

            We start by showing that ↵1 2 (0, 1) is not an optimal ↵1 .
                                                     0
            By the continuity of ⇤0 (↵1 ) and @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) > 0, there exists a
                        0                                0
            unique ↵1 2 (0, 1) such that ⇤ = ⇤0 (↵1 ). Given that ⇤0 (↵1 )
                                                           0
            is strictly increasing in ↵1 , when ↵1 2 (0, ↵1 ), ⇤ > ⇤0 (↵1 ) and
                                                       0
                           @S
            therefore, @↵    1
                               > 0; and, when ↵1 2 (↵1 , 1), ⇤ < ⇤0 and there-
                                             0
                    @S
            fore, @↵  1
                          < 0. As a result, ↵1 2 (0, 1) = arg max↵1 2[0,1] {S}.
            Hence, an optimal corner ↵1 = 0 and/or ↵1 = 1 must exist.

                                   96
Next, we find additional sufficient conditions and characterize
the corner optimal ↵1 .
                                     Z Ā
                   S(↵1 , ⇤) =              Ag(d)dA+
                                      0
                     Z Ā            ✓             ◆
                                           A
      +p(1 + ⇤↵1 )                                     C1 (A)g(A)dA+
                      A2.1 (p,↵1 )       A + f¯V
                   Z A2.1 (p,↵1 )
                                      A
              +p                         C0 (A)g(A)dA.
                     0               f¯V

Compare S at optimal ↵1 = 1 and optimal ↵1 = 0. Optimal
↵1 = 1 occurs when ⇤ = ⇤0 , by point (i).

           S(↵1 = 1, ⇤ = ⇤) < S(↵1 = 0, ⇤ = ⇤).
                               ¯ 0 , by point (i).
Optimal ↵1 = 0 occurs when ⇤ = ⇤
                                           ¯
                         ¯ < S(↵1 = 1, ⇤ = ⇤).
           S(↵1 = 0, ⇤ = ⇤)
Hence, either ↵1 = 0 or ↵1 = 1 can be optimal under certain
conditions on ⇤.
We now characterize the sufficient conditions on ⇤ under which
↵1 = 0 is optimal and ↵1 = 1 is optimal. First, analyze the
relationship between ⇤ and S for ↵1 = 0 and ↵1 = 1. Note
that ⇤ does not a↵ect A2.1 (p, ↵1 ).
                            Z Ā
   @S(↵1 = 1, ⇤)                            A
                 =p                               C1 (A)g(A)dA > 0
       @⇤                    A2.1 (p,1)   A + f¯V

and
                       @S(↵1 = 0, ⇤)
                                       = 0,
                             @⇤
i.e., S(↵1 = 1, ⇤) is strictly increasing in ⇤ and S(↵1 = 0, ⇤)
is constant. Therefore, the two curves can cross in just one
point. Hence, by the continuity of S(↵1 = 0, ⇤) and S(↵1 =
1, ⇤) with respect to ⇤, there exists a unique ⇤   ˆ such that
S(↵1 = 1, ⇤)  S(↵1 = 0, ⇤) for ⇤ 2 (⇤, ⇤],     ˆ and S(↵1 =
1, ⇤) > S(↵1 = 0, ⇤) for ⇤ 2 (⇤,    ¯ Hence, S(↵1 = 1, ⇤) and
                                 ˆ ⇤).
S(↵1 = 0, ⇤) intersect at point ⇤ = ⇤.  ˆ

                         97
                              ˆ S(↵1 = 0, ⇤)
                     ˆ At ⇤ = ⇤,
        Characterize ⇤.                                 ˆ
                                          ˆ = S(↵1 = 1, ⇤),
        Z Ā                               Z A2.1 (p,0)
                       A                                A
                         ¯ V
                             C1 (A)g(A)dA+              ¯  C0 (A)g(A)dA =
          A2.1 (p,0) A + f                  0           fV
                                 Z Ā
                           ˆ                        A
                    = (1 + ⇤)                             C1 (A)g(A)dA+
                                     A2.1 (p,1)   A + f¯V
                               Z A2.1 (p,1)
                                                  A
                           +                      ¯  C0 (A)g(A)dA.
                                 0                fV
                    ˆ
        Solving for ⇤,
                                                  ˆ=
                                                  ⇤
            R Ā           A
                                                 R A2.1 (p,0) A
                               C (A)g(A)dA + 0
               A2.1 (p,0) A+f¯V 1
                                                                 C (A)g(A)dA
                                                              f¯V 0
        =                      R Ā         A
                                                C (A)g(A)dA
                                A2.1 (p,1) A+f¯V 1
                            R A2.1 (p,1) A
                             0
                                               C (A)g(A)dA
                                            f¯V 0
                          R Ā                                       1.
                                       A
                                           C (A)g(A)dA
                           A2.1 (p,1) A+f¯V 1


        Hence, the optimal ↵1 are as follows.
                       ˆ then the optimal ↵1 = 1.
         A. If ⇤ 2 (⇤, ⇤],

                       ¯ then the optimal ↵1 = 0.
                    ˆ ⇤),
         B. If ⇤ 2 (⇤,



                                                   0                      0
          1 (A)
(b) If @C@A     < µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], then, @⇤ (↵1 )
                                         @A2.1 > 0. Therefore,
                                                               @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                                 @↵1    <
    0.

      i. If ⇤ = ⇤0 , then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) for ↵1 2 [0, 1) and ⇤ = ⇤0 (↵1 )
         for ↵1 = 1, by the definition of ⇤0 . Therefore, @↵  @S
                                                                1
                                                                  < 0 for
                            @S
         ↵1 2 [0, 1) and @↵1 = 0 for ↵1 = 1, by the definition of
         ⇤0 (↵1 ). Hence for ⇤ = ⇤0 , arg min↵1 2[0,1] {S} = 1.


                                      98
     ii. If ⇤ = ⇤ ¯ 0 , then ⇤ > ⇤0 (↵1 ) for ↵1 2 (0, 1] and ⇤ = ⇤0 (↵1 )
         for ↵1 = 0, by the definition of ⇤     ¯ 0 . Therefore, @S > 0 for
                                                                 @↵1
                              @S
         ↵1 2 (0, 1] and @↵     1
                                  =  0   for ↵ 1  =   0, by the definition of
         ⇤0 (↵1 ). Hence for ⇤ = ⇤ ¯ 0 , arg min↵ 2[0,1] {S} = 0.
                                                    1


                    ¯ then ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ) for some ↵1 2 [0, 1] and ⇤ >
    iii. If ⇤ 2 (⇤, ⇤),
                                                                      ¯ 0.
         ⇤ (↵1 ) some other ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definitions of ⇤0 and ⇤
           0
                     @S                                  @S
         Therefore, @↵1 < 0 for some ↵1 2 (0, 1] and @↵1 > 0 for some
         other ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ). Given that S
         is a continuous function of ↵1 2 [0, 1], by the Extreme Value
         Theorem, an optimal ↵1 exists. Next, we evaluate whether
         there exists corner and/or interior optimal ↵1 .

        We show that there exists an interior ↵1 2 (0, 1) for each
                                                              0
                  ¯ 0 ). By the continuity of ⇤0 (↵1 ) and @⇤ (↵1 ) < 0,
        ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤                                          @↵1
                                 0                               0
        there exists a unique ↵1 2 (0, 1) such that ⇤ = ⇤0 (↵1 ). At
               0
                    @S
        ↵1 = ↵1 , @↵   1
                         = 0 by the definition of ⇤0 (↵1 ). When ↵1 2
             0                          0
        (0, ↵1 ), ⇤ < ⇤0 (↵1 ), by @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) < 0. Therefore, @↵
                                                               @S
                                                                  1
                                                                    < 0.
                          0                         0
        When ↵1 2 (↵1 , 1), ⇤ > ⇤0 , by @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) < 0. Therefore,
                         0
        @S
        @↵1 > 0. Hence, ↵1 2 (0, 1) = arg min↵1 2[0,1] {S}.

                                                0
                       @S                              @S
        Given that @↵    1
                           < 0 for ↵1 2 (0, ↵1 ) and @↵  1
                                                           > 0 for ↵1 2
          0
        (↵1 , 1), a corner optimal ↵1 , zero or 1, does not exist.


                                            0                       0
          1 (A)
(c) If @C@A     = µ 8A 2 [0, Ā], then @⇤ (↵1 )
                                        @A2.1 = 0. Therefore,
                                                              @⇤ (↵1 )
                                                                @↵1    =
                  0
    0. Hence, ⇤ (↵1 ) = ⇤ ¯ (↵1 ) = ⇤ .
                           0           0


                           @S
      i. If ⇤ < ⇤0 , then @↵ 1
                               < 0 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of
           0
         ⇤ (↵1 ). Hence, the optimal ↵1 = 1.
                           @S
     ii. If ⇤ > ⇤0 , then @↵ 1
                               > 0 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of
           0
         ⇤ (↵1 ). Hence, the optimal ↵1 = 0
                           @S
    iii. If ⇤ = ⇤0 , then @↵ 1
                               = 0 8↵1 2 [0, 1], by the definition of
           0
         ⇤ (↵1 ). Hence, any ↵1 2 [0, 1] is optimal.

                                99
Appendix B. Benchmark Model – Uniform Dis-
tribution Model and Numerical Example
This Appendix presents the model with a uniform distribution of damages
(Section B.1) and the numerical example (Section B.2) for the benchmark
model. We focus on Environment 1, p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄], and
Environment 2, p-Segment 2 where p 2 (p0 , 1].


B.1 Model with a Uniform Distribution of Damages
Assume that A is uniformly distributed over A 2 [0, Ā], where g(A) = Ā1
                             R Ā
8A 2 [0, Ā], G(A) = A
                     Ā
                        , and 0 Ag(A)dA = Ā2 .


Thresholds p̄ and A2.1 .– p̄ and A2.1 (p) can be explicitly defined.

   Consider p̄. When p = p̄, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint is:
                   Z Ā                Z (1 p̄) f¯V
                           1                p̄           p̄A    1
                          A dA = f¯I                         ¯V
                                                                  dA.
                    0      Ā           0             (1 p̄)f Ā
              ¯V
Let = (1 p̄)p̄
               f
                 . The liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint can
be written as:
                              Ā       1 ( )2 1
                                 = f¯I          .
                               2           2 Ā
Solving for :
                                 Ā2    (1 p̄)f¯V
                              = ¯I =               .
                                 f           p̄
Hence,
                                        f¯V f¯I
                                 p̄ = ¯V ¯I     .
                                      f f + Ā2
   Consider A2.1 (p). Suppose p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is:
                   Z Ā                Z A2.1 (p)
                           1                             pA    1
                          A dA = f¯I                        ¯V
                                                                 dA,
                    0      Ā            0            (1 p)f Ā

                                             100
which can be written as:
                           Ā                   p     (A2.1 (p))2 1
                              = f¯I                                  .
                           2        (1          p)f¯V     2       Ā

Hence,                                             s
                                                       (1    p)f¯V
                                 A2.1 (p) = Ā               ¯     .
                                                            pf I



Social Welfare Loss Function for Environment 1.– Given the optimal
mechanisms and the assumption regarding the distribution of damages, the
social welfare loss function is as follows.
                                    Z A2.1 (p) ⇣
                                                  p ⌘A
       SW L2.1 = H(A) + (1 p)                            C0 (A)g(A)dA+
                                     0           1 p f¯V
                           Z Ā           ⇣     A ⌘
                      +p                              C1 (A)g(A)dA =
                               A2.1 (p)       A + f¯V
                Z A2.1 (p) ⇣                      Z Ā
    Ā                          p ⌘ A C0 (A)               ⇣ A ⌘ C (A)
                                                                   1
=      +(1 p)                                dA+p                      dA.
    2            0             1 p f¯V Ā                       ¯V
                                                   A2.1 (p) A + f   Ā



Social Welfare Loss Function for Environment 2.– Given the optimal
mechanisms and the assumption regarding the distribution of damages, the
social welfare loss function is as follows.
                         Z A0                                 Z Ā
                                  pA
SW L2 = H(A)+(1 p)                       C  0 (A)g(A)dA+(1 p)      C0 (A)g(A)dA+
                          0    (1 p)f¯V                        A0




B.2 Numerical Example
The model with a uniform distribution of damages model is used to construct
this numerical example.




                                                 101
Environment 1
Assume C0 (A) = C0 + c0 A and C1 (A) = C1 + c1 A. The set of exogenous
parameters is:

 {C0 , C1 , c0 , c1 , f¯V , f¯I , Ā, p} = {1528, 690, 0.3, 0.01, 1800, 3600, 1200, 0.45}.

Given that Ā = 1200, H = Ā2 = 600.


   The model conditions are satisfied under this numerical example.
  1. The condition for Environment 1, C0 (A) C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā], becomes
     1528 + 0.3A 690 + 0.01A. After simplification, 0.29A > 838 8A 2
     [0, 1200].
  2. The condition for Lemma 3 and first condition for Propositions 3 and
     4, C0 (0) > C1 (0), becomes 1528 > 690.
                                                          C (A)
                                                         @ C1 (A)
  3. The second condition for Proposition 3,                0
                                                           @A        0 8A 2 [0, Ā], be-
     comes
                 @C 1 +c1 A
                  C0 +c0 A        c1 C0 c0 C1    0.01(1528) 0.3(690)
                              =                =                     =
                    @A            (C0 + c0 A)2      (1528 + 0.3A)2
                                             191.72
                                    =                  <0
                                        (1528 + 0.3A)2
      8A 2 [0, 1200].
                                               0 (A)
  4. The third condition for Proposition 3, @C@A     > 0 8A 2 [0, Ā], becomes
     c0 = 0.3 > 0 8A 2 [0, 1200].
                                                                                        ¯V
  5. The second condition for Proposition 4 is C0 (A) C0 (0) < CA+    1 (A)f
                                                                          f¯V
     8A 2 [0, Ā]. The left-hand side of the inequality is: C0 (A) C0 (0) =
     c0 A = 0.3A. The right-hand side of the inequality is (690+0.01A)(1800)
                                                                 A+1800       .
     Evaluate the left-hand side at the highest A-value and the numerator
     of the right-hand side at the lowest A-value and the denominator of
     the right-hand side at the highest A-value. After simplification, 360 <
     414 = (690)(1800)
               3000    8A 2 [0, 1200].




                                           102
   For an illustration, the next sections focus on p-Segment 2.1.


Social Welfare Loss Functions.– Given the optimal mechanisms and
functional forms for C0 (A) and C1 (A), the social welfare loss function is
as follows.
                               Z A2.1 (p) ⇣
              2.1   Ā                       p ⌘ A C0 + c0 A
         SW L = + (1 p)                                      dA+
                    2           0           1 p f¯V    Ā
                           Z Ā         ⇣     A ⌘ C1 + c1 A
                      +p                                    dA =
                             A2.1 (p)       A + f¯V  Ā
                                
                      Ā    p        (A2.1 )2      (A2.1 )3
                         + ¯V     C0          + c0          +
                      2    f Ā        2             3
              
           p       Ā2      (A2.1 (p))2
                c1                      + (C1        c1 f¯V )(Ā   A2.1 (p))
           Ā       2           2

              (C1     c1 f¯V )f¯V [log(Ā + f¯V )    log(A2.1 (p) + f¯V )] ,
                      q
                          (1 p)f¯V
where A2.1 (p) = Ā         pf¯I
                                   . Using the set of exogenous parameters, SW L2.1
is computed.


                                                          1800
Numerical Example.– The relevant p-thresholds are p̃ = 1800+3600 =
                   (1800)(3600)
0.33 and p̄ = (1800)(3600)+1200   2 = 0.82. Therefore, p 2 (0.33, 0.82]. In this

example, p = 0.45 and therefore, A2.1 (p) = 938. Hence, the A-segments are
A 2 [0, 938] and A 2 (938, 1200]. The optimal probabilities of investigation
for each A-segment, evaluated at the average A-values, A = 469 and A =
1069, are: q0 (A) = 1 0.45      469
                          0.45 1800 = 0.213 and q1 (A) = 0; and, q0 (A) = 0 and
             1069
q1 (A) = 1800+1069 = 0.373. Intuitively, evidence might be produced only in
legal cases where the injurer reports to be non-liable and the victim reports
sufficiently low damages (A  938). Evidence might be also produced in legal
cases where the injurer reports to be liable if the victim reports sufficiently
high damages (A > 938). The expected harm from an accident, equal to the
expected victim’s damages, is H = 1200   2  = 600. The optimal expected cost
of producing evidence for p-Segment 2.1 is E[C(A)]2.1 = 343, the optimal
expected cost from the infringement of the victim’s right of access to justice
is ✓E[⌘(A)] = 0 and the optimal expected cost from the infringement of the

                                               103
right of the victims confronting liable injurers to be fully compensated is
⇤E[⇠(A)] = 0. Hence, the social welfare loss for p-Segment 2.1 is SW L2.1 =
H + E[C(A)]2.1 + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] = 600 + 343 + 0 + 0 = 943.



Environment 2
Assume that C0 (A) = C0 +c0 A and C1 (A) = C1 +c1 A. The set of exogenous
parameters is:

    {C0 , C1 , c0 , c1 , f¯V , f¯I , Ā} = {500, 1200, 0.15, 0.03, 1800, 3600, 1200}.

Given that Ā = 1200, H = Ā2 = 600.


   The model conditions are satisfied under this numerical example.
  1. The first condition for Environment 2, C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā],
     becomes 500 + 0.15A < 1200 + 0.3A. After simplification, 700 <
     0.15A, which holds 8A 2 [0, 1200].

  2. The second condition for Environment 2, Ā < C    1 (A)
                                                      C0 (A) 1 f¯V , becomes
     1200 < 1200+0.3A
               500+0.15A  1 (1800). Evaluate the numerator of the fraction
     in the right-hand side of the inequality at the lowest A-value and the
     denominator of the fraction in the right-hand side of the inequality at
     the highest A-value: 1200 < 1376.47 = 1200680  1 (1800) 8A 2 [0, 1200].
  3. The condition for Lemma 3 and first condition for Proposition 3, C0 (0) >
     0, becomes 500 > 0.
                                                0 (A)
  4. The second condition for Proposition 3, @C@A     > 0 8A 2 [0, Ā], be-
     comes 0.15 > 0 8A 2 [0, 1200].
   For an illustration, we focus on p-Segment 2 in the next two sections.


Social Welfare Loss Functions.– Given the optimal mechanisms and the
functional forms for C0 (A) and C1 (A), the social welfare loss function is as
follows.
                     Z A0                                 Z Ā
      2   Ā                 pA      C0 + c0 A                  C0 + c0 A
SW L = +(1 p)                    ¯ V
                                               dA+(1 p)                   dA+
          2           0   (1  p) f      Ā                  A 0    Ā

                                          104
            Table B1: Numerical Example – Optimal Production of Evidence

  Environment           p-Segment    A-Segment     Optimal q0 (A)a   Optimal q1 (A)a
  Environment 2          (0.60, 1]    [0, 735]     q0 (A) = 0.501       q1 (A) = 0
  (p-Segment 2)                      (735, 1200]     q0 (A) = 1       q1 (A) = 0.084

Note: a For each A-segment, q0 (A) and q1 (A) are evaluated at the average A-value; p =
0.71 is used.

                        Z Ā            ✓            ◆
                                 f¯V       C1 + c1 A
             +p        1                                dA =
                  A0        p(A + f¯V )         Ā
                                         
 Ā  p       (A0 )2       (A0 )3     1 p                     Ā2           (A0 )2
= + ¯V    C0        + c0           +        C0 (Ā A0 ) + c0                           +
 2 f Ā        2            3         Ā                      2              2
                    
                  p                      Ā2     (A0 )2
               +      C1 (Ā A0 ) + c1
                 Ā                       2        2
          f¯V
              {c1 (Ā   A0 ) + (C1   c1 f¯V )[log(Ā + f¯V )   log(A0 + f¯V )]}.
           Ā
    Using the set of exogenous parameters, SW L2 is computed.


Numerical Example.– Table B1 summarizes our results. The relevant
                          1800
p-threshold is p0 = 1800+1200     = 0.60. Therefore, p 2 (0.60, 1]. In this
example, p = 0.71 and therefore, A0 (p) = 735. Hence, the A-segments are
A 2 [0, 735] and A 2 (735, 1200]. The expected harm from an accident,
equal to the expected victim’s damages, is H = 1200    2   = 600. The optimal
probabilities of investigation for each A-segment, evaluated at the average
A-values, A = 368 and A = 968 are: q0 (A) = 1 0.71             368
                                                         0.71 1800 = 0.501 and
                                                 1800
q1 (A) = 0 and, q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1 0.71(1800+968) = 0.084. Intuitively,
evidence might be produced only in legal cases where the injurer reports to
be non-liable and the victim reports sufficiently low damages (A  735).
Evidence might be also produced in legal cases where the injurer reports to
be non-liable and liable if the victim reports sufficiently high damages (A >
735). The expected harm from an accident, equal to the expected victim’s
damages, is H = 1200  2    = 600. The optimal expected cost of producing
evidence for p-Segment 2 is E[C(A)]2 = 157, the optimal expected cost from
the infringement of the victim’s right of access to justice is ✓E[⌘(A)] = 0 and
the optimal expected cost from the infringement of the right of the victims
confronting liable injurers to be fully compensated is ⇤E[⇠(A)] = 0. Hence,

                                          105
the social welfare loss for p-Segment 2 is SW L2 = H +E[C(A)]2 +✓E[⌘(A)]+
⇤E[⇠(A)] = 600 + 157 + 0 + 0 = 757.




                                  106
Appendix C: Model with Endogenous Cost Al-
location
This appendix presents the formal analysis of the model with endogenous
cost allocation. It also includes the proofs of propositions (except for Propo-
sition 12), lemmas and claims. The model setup and intuitive discussion are
presented in the main text of the paper, Section 6. The proof of Proposition
12 (main proposition) is included in Appendix A.

    As stated in Section 4, we assume that the victim and the injurer might
pay a share of the cost of producing evidence. Therefore, the transfers and
fines that result from the production of evidence are as follows. First, when
reports are not investigated, the injurer transfers rV to the victim if rI = 1.
Second, when the reports are investigated and found to be truthful (rV = A
and rI = L), the injurer transfers rV to the victim if rI = 1 and pays (1 ↵i )
of the cost of producing evidence Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). The victim pays ↵i of
the cost of producing evidence Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). Third, when the reports are
investigated and the injurer’s report is found to be untruthful (rI 6= L), the
injurer pays fine f I 2 [0, f¯I ] to the social planner, and the social planner
transfers rV to the victim if L = 1 and pays (1 ↵i ) of the cost of producing
evidence Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). The victim pays ↵i of the cost of producing
evidence Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). Fourth, when the reports are investigated and the
victim’s report is found untruthful, the victim does not receive any transfers
and pays fine f V 2 [0, f¯V ] to the social planner, and the social planner pays
↵i of the cost of producing evidence Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). The injurer pays
(1 ↵i ) of the cost of producing evidence Ci (A) (i = 0, 1). Fifth, when
the reports are investigated and the victim’s and injurer’s reports are found
untruthful (rV 6= A and rI 6= L): The victim does not receive any transfers,
the victim and the injurer pay fines f V 2 [0, f¯V ] and f I 2 [0, f¯I ] to the
social planner, and the social planner pays the cost of producing evidence
Ci (A) (i = 0, 1).57

Players’ Constraints
Victim’s Individual-Rationality Constraint.– By participating in the
mechanism and truthfully reporting her type, a victim with type A gets
compensation A when the injurer is liable and pays an expected share of
the cost of verification equal to [p↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A) + (1 p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)].

  57 The social planner pays ↵       and (1   ↵1 ) of the cost of producing evidence Ci (A)
                                 i
(i = 0, 1).


                                              107
Her expected payo↵ is pA [p↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A) + (1 p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)]. The
victim gets zero compensation if she decides not to trigger the mechanism.
Therefore, the victim’s individual-rationality constraint is: 8A 2 [0, Ā],

            pA      [p↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A) + (1       p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)]     0.
Rearranging terms:
             p(A       ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))    (1    p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)     0.
In contrast to the benchmark model, this constraint is not trivially satisfied.

Victim’s Incentive-Compatibility Constraint.– By truthfully reporting
her type, the victim with type A gets compensation p(A ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))
(1 p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A). Clearly, no victim has an incentive to report a lower
type. When the victim reports a (weakly) higher type, A0 2 [0, Ā], she
gets a compensation A0      A when investigation does not occur, and gets
no compensation and pays fine f V (which includes her share of the cost
of producing evidence ↵i ) when investigation occurs. Her expected payo↵
is p(1 q1 (A0 ))A0 [pq1 (A0 ) + (1 p)q0 (A0 )]f V . Therefore, the victim’s
incentive-compatibility constraint is: 8A, A0 2 [0, Ā],

              p(A       ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))    (1    p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)

                 p(1              [pq1 (A0 ) + (1 p)q0 (A0 )]f V .
                          q1 (A0 )A0
Note that, by setting the fine f V 2 [0, f¯V ] as high as possible, the social
planner will spend less resources on investigation. Given that the victim
is financially constrained, f¯V = W V . Therefore, the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is: 8A, A0 2 [0, Ā],

              p(A       ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))    (1    p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)

                 p(1     q1 (A0 ))A0   [pq1 (A0 ) + (1   p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V .

Liable Injurer’s Incentive-Compatibility Constraint.– When the li-
able injurer truthfully reports his type, rL = 1, he pays expected dam-
ages E[A] and a share (1 ↵1 ) of the cost of producing evidence C1 (A)
when investigation occurs. His expected payo↵ u1|1 is uI1|1 = [E[A] +
                           ⇥ R Ā                  R Ā                  ⇤
(1 ↵1 )E[q1 (A)C1 (A)]] =     0
                                  Ag(A)dA+(1 ↵1 ) 0 q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA .
By pretending to be non-liable, the liable injurer pays zero compensation
when investigation does not occur, and pays fine f I when investigation oc-
curs. His expected payo↵ uI0|1 is uI0|1 = [E[(1 q0 (A))0] f I E[q0 (A)] =
                                           108
     R Ā
  f I 0 (q0 (A)g(A)dA. By setting f I 2 [0, f¯I ] as high as possible, the so-
cial planner economizes on investigation e↵orts. Hence, the liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint:
 Z Ā                         Z Ā                              Z Ā
        Ag(A)dA + (1   ↵1 )          q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA  f¯I          q0 (A)g(A)dA.
   0                            0                                0

Given that the injurer has limited financial resources, f¯I = W I .

Non-Liable Injurer’s Incentive-Compatibility Constraint.– When the
non-liable injurer truthfully reports his type, rL = 0, he pays zero compen-
sation and pays a share (1 ↵0 ) of the cost of producing evidence C0 (A) when
investigation occurs. His expected payo↵ uI0|0 is uI0|0 = (1 ↵0 )E[q0 (A)C0 (A)] =
           R Ā
   (1 ↵0 ) 0 q0 (A)C0 (A)g(A)dA. When the non-liable injurer reports to be
liable, rL = 1, he pays compensation only when investigation does not oc-
cur, and pays a fine f I when investigation occurs. His expected payo↵ uI1|0 is
                                               R Ā
uI1|0 = [E[(1 q1 (A))A] f I E[q1 (A)] =         0
                                                    (1 q1 (A))A + q1 (A)f I g(A)dA.
By setting f I 2 [0, f¯I ] as high as possible, the social planner economizes on
investigation e↵orts. Hence, the non-liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint:
          Z Ā                          Z Ā
 (1 ↵0 )        q0 (A)C0 (A)g(A)dA           (1 q1 (A))A + q1 (A)f¯I g(A)dA.
           0                                0

In contrast to the benchmark model, this constraint is not trivially satisfied.


    The next claim shows the relationship between victim’s incentive-compatibility
constraint in the current model and the victim’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint in the benchmark model and the victim’s individual-rationality con-
straint in the model with endogenous cost allocation. This result simplifies
the procedure used to characterize the optimal mechanism.

Claims 7. The victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint in the current
model (for given ↵0 and ↵1 ) holds when the victim’s incentive-compatibility
constraint in the benchmark model holds and the victim’s individual-rationality
constraint in the current model holds.
Proof. Remember that the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint in
the benchmark model is: 8A 2 [0, Ā],

                [pq1 (A) + (1        p)q0 (A)]f¯V   [p(1   q1 (A)]A.
                                           109
This constraint can be rewritten as:
                 [p(1      q1 (A)]A         [pq1 (A) + (1        p)q0 (A)]f¯V  0.
   The victim’s individual-rationality constraint in the current model is:
8A 2 [0, Ā],

                p(A       ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))           (1    p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)        0.

     Combining the last two constraints: 8A, A0 2 [0, Ā]
            p(A ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A)) (1 p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)                               0
                      [p(1     q1 (A)]A           [pq1 (A) + (1      p)q0 (A)]f¯V
   which implies the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint in the cur-
rent model is: 8A, A0 2 [0, Ā],

                 p(A       ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A))           (1    p)↵0 q0 (A)C0 (A)

                   p(1       q1 (A0 ))A0          [pq1 (A0 ) + (1    p)q0 (A0 )]f¯V ,
⌅


    The next claim demonstrates that that the liable injurer’s and non-liable
injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraints cannot be simultaneously vio-
lated. Importantly, this result holds for any set {↵0 , ↵1 , q0 (A), q1 (A)} that
is not optimal (qi (A) 2 [0, 1] and ↵i 2 [0, 1]. i = 0, 1). Hence, it suffices to
focus on the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint. This result
simplifies the procedure used to characterize the optimal mechanism.

Claim 8. (1) If the the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is
violated or satisfied as an equality, then the non-liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is satisfied. (2) If the non-liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is violated or satisfied as an equality, then the liable
injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied.

Proof. Consider Part (1). Suppose the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint is not satisfied or is satisfied as equality:
    Z Ā                             Z Ā                                Z Ā
           Ag(A)dA + (1       ↵1 )          q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA                  q0 (A)f¯I g(A)dA.
     0                                0                                    0

Then,
                  Z Ā                      Z Ā
                          Ag(A)dA +                 q1 (A)(f¯I      A)g(A)dA
                      0                       0

                                                    110
                Z Ā                                Z Ā
                          Ag(A)dA + (1       ↵1 )           q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA
                  0                                    0
           Z Ā                                            Z Ā
                  q0 (A)f¯I g(A)dA         (1     ↵0 )            q0 (A)C0 (A)g(A)dA.
            0                                               0
Hence,
Z Ā               Z Ā                                                   Z Ā
       Ag(A)dA+            q1 (A)(f¯I A)g(A)dA                  (1 ↵0 )          q0 (A)C0 (A)g(A)dA.
 0                    0                                                    0

Hence, the non-liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied.
Part (2) is verified using a similar approach. ⌅

Social Planner’s Civil Justice Problem
As discussed in the main text of the paper, the only two relevant components
of the social welfare function for the characterization of the optimal cost
allocation and the optimal production of evidence are E[C(A)] and ⇤E[⇠(A)].
The social planner’s problem is:

                               min                     {E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)]}.
                q0 (A,↵0 ,↵1 ),q1 (A,↵0 ,↵1 ),↵0 ,↵1

    We adopt a five-step procedure to characterize the optimal probabilities
of investigation and the optimal share of the cost of producing evidence.
The first four steps characterize the interim probabilities of verification. We
take ↵1 and ↵0 as given but include the feasibility constraints 0  ↵i  1
(i = 0, 1) in the analysis. In the last step, we use the interim probabilities
of verification to characterize the optimal ↵0 and ↵1 .

    In Step 1, we characterize the interim q0 (A) and q1 (A) that satisfy the
victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint of the benchmark model (1), and
the feasibility constraints for qi (A) and ↵i (i = 0, 1). By Claim 6, the vic-
tim’s incentive-compatibility constraint of the current model holds when the
victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint of the benchmark model and the
victim’s individual-rationality constraint of the current model hold. There-
fore, Step 1 corresponds to the first part of verification that the victim’s
incentive-compatibility constraint of the current model holds.

    In Step 2, we evaluate whether the interim probabilities of investigation
satisfy the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint. By Claim 7, if
the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is violated or satisfied
as an equality, then the non-liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint
is also satisfied. If the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is

                                                111
not satisfied under the interim probabilities of investigation characterized in
Step 1, adjustments to satisfy this constraint as an equality are implemented.
The non-liable injurer’s incentive compatibility constraint will be still sat-
isfied under the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation, by Claim 7.
If the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied under the
interim probabilities of investigation characterized in Step 1 no further ad-
justments are required. Two mutually-exclusive cases occur. First, if the
injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied as an equality, then
the non-liable injurer is also satisfied and hence, no further adjustments are
required. Second, if the injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satis-
fied as an inequality, then we need to verify whether the non-liable injurer is
also satisfied. If not, further adjustments to satisfy the non-liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint as an equality should be implemented. By
Claim 7, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint will be still
satisfied under the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation.

    In Step 3, we evaluate whether the interim probabilities of investiga-
tion characterized in Step 2 satisfy the victim’s individual-rationality con-
straint. If not, adjustments are implemented. Therefore, given Claim 6, Step
3 also corresponds to second part of verification that the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint of the current model holds.

    In Step 4, we verify whether the interim probabilities of investigation still
satisfy the victim’s and liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraints. If
not, adjustments are implemented. We show that the optimal probabilities of
investigation of the benchmark model correspond to the interim probabilities
of investigation of this model. In contrast to the benchmark model, the
threshold A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) now depends on ↵1 .

    In Step 5, we characterize the optimal cost allocation and optimal pro-
duction of evidence. We first characterize the optimal cost allocation, ↵0 and
↵1 by evaluating E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] at the interim probabilities of inves-
tigation, and minimizing this function with respect to ↵0 and ↵1 . We then
characterize the optimal production of evidence by evaluating the threshold
A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) of the interim probabilities of investigation at the optimal ↵1 .


Step 1: Analysis of Victim’s Incentive-Compatibility Con-
straint (Part 1)

Claim 9. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). Part 1 of the victim’s incentive-compatibility
constraint for a victim of type A 2 [0, Ā], [pq1 (A) + (1 p)q0 (A)]f¯V
[p(1 q1 (A)]A holds as an equality at the interim probabilities of investigation
0  qi (A)  1 (i = 0, 1).
                                      112
Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Claim 1 of the
benchmark model. ⌅


Claim 10. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). Suppose A = C1 (A)(1+⇤)
                                                 C0 (A)    1 f¯V or A =
                                                              ¯V
 C1 (A)
 C0 (A) 1 f¯V . The optimal mechanism is not unique for p > ¯Vf ¯I .       f +f

Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Claim 2 of the
benchmark model. ⌅

                                                                   ¯V
   Following the benchmark model, we define p0 ⌘ f¯Vf +Ā and A0 (p) ⌘
 1 p ¯V
  p  f . Claims 3–5 of the benchmark model also hold here.


    Proposition 7. Suppose p 2 (0, 1). The interim probabilities of investi-
gation for a victim of type A are as follows.

  1. If A        C1 (A)(1+⇤)
                    C0 (A)       1 f¯V , then q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A .

  2. If A < C  1 (A)
              C0 (A)         1 f¯V and A     1 p
                                               p     f¯V , then q0 (A) =    p   A
                                                                           1 p f¯V   and
     q1 (A) = 0.

  3. If A <       C1 (A)
                           1 f¯V and A >     1 p
                                              p    f¯V , then q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) =
                f¯V
      1     p(f¯V +A)
                      .


Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Proposition 1 of
the benchmark model. ⌅


Proposition 8. The interim probabilities of investigation for Environments
1 and 2 across victim’s types are as follows.
  1. Environment 1: If C0 (A) C1 (A)(1+⇤), then the interim probabilities
     of investigation are: q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1 8A 2 [0, Ā]
     8p 2 (0, 1).

  2. Environment 2: If C0 (A) < C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā] and Ā < C          1 (A)
                                                                       C0 (A)
     1 f¯V 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the interim probabilities of investigation are as
     follows.
                                           113
       (a) p-Segment 1: If p 2 (0, p0 ], then the interim probabilities of in-
           vestigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, Ā].
           (b) p-Segment 2: If p 2 (p0 , 1), then the interim probabilities of in-
               vestigation are q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0 8A 2 [0, A0 (p)],
                                                        f¯V
               and q0 (A) = 1 and q1 (A) = 1        p(f¯V +A)
                                                              8A 2 (A0 (p), Ā].


Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Proposition 2 of
the benchmark model. ⌅


      The next sections are focused on Environment 1, p-Segment 2.1 (p 2
(p̃, p̄]).58


Adjustment Procedures
This section discusses technical aspects of the adjustment procedures that
can be implemented on the interim probabilities of investigation to satisfy
the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint.

   Following the methodology presented in the benchmark model, we first
characterize ⌦i (A) (i = 1, 2).

                                                  f¯I
                      ⌦1 (A) =          h                                i.
                                                        C1 (A)(1+↵1 ⇤)
                                 (1   p) C0 (A)
                                                            1+ ¯A
                                                                V
                                                               f



                                                  f¯I
                                 ⌦2 (A) =                  .
                                            (1    p)C0 (A)

Lemma 7. (1) Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā]. If and only if
C0 (0) > C1 (0)(1 + ⇤), ⌦1 (A) > 0 exists 8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8↵1 2 [0, 1]. (2) If
and only if C0 (0) > 0, ⌦2 (A) > 0 exists 8A 2 [0, Ā].

Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Lemma 3 of the
benchmark model. ⌅

  58 Formal analysis of p-Segment 1 and p-Segment 2.2 are available from the authors upon

request.


                                            114
Proposition 9. (1) Suppose C0 (A)                    C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā] and
                                 C (A)
                               @ C1 (A)
C0 (0) > C1 (0)(1 + ⇤). If @A 0
                                    0 8A 2 [0, Ā], then the implementation
of Procedure 1 should start at the lowest value of A. (2) Suppose C0 (0) > 0.
The implementation of Procedure 2 should start at the lowest value of A

Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Proposition 3 of
the benchmark model. ⌅


Proposition 10.        Suppose C0 (A)             C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) >
                                     C (A)
                                    @ C1 (A)
C1 (0)(1 + ⇤), C0 (0) > 0 and         @A
                                        0
                                                0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. If and only if C0 (A)
                ¯V
          1 (A)f
C0 (0) < CA+  f¯V
                 8A 2 [0, Ā] and 8↵1 2 [0, 1], Procedure 1 is more efficient
than Procedure 2 across victim’s types.

Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Proposition 4 of
the benchmark model. ⌅




Step 2: Analysis of Liable Injurer’s Incentive-Compatibility
Constraint and Verification of the Non-Liable Injurer
Incentive-Compatibility Constraint
The liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint, evaluated at the in-
terim probabilities of investigation, is not satisfied:
 Z Ā                          Z Ā ✓           ◆                    Z Ā
                                           A                      ¯I
        Ag(A)dA + (1    ↵1 )                      C 1 (A)g(A)dA > f       0g(A)dA.
  0                             0       f¯V + A                       0

Therefore, adjustments on the interim probabilities of investigation are re-
quired. By Claim 7, the non-liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility is satis-
fied.

   The characterization of p̃, p̄, and the threshold A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) follows the
procedure applied in the benchmark model.

    Consider first p̃. Following the benchmark model, p̃ is defined as the level
of p such that, after exhausting Procedure 1 8A 2 [0, Ā], the liable injurer’s
incentive-compatibility constraint evaluated at the adjusted interim proba-
bilities of investigation is satisfied as an equality. Given that 8A 2 [0, Ā],
                                               115
q0 (A) is increased from zero to ( 1 p p ) f¯AV and q1 (A) is decreased from f¯VA+A
to zero, the relevant terms of the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint that define p̃ are the same as in the benchmark model:
Z Ā                               Z Ā                         Z Ā ✓             ◆
                                                                             p̃       A
       Ag(A)dA + (1         ↵1 )          0C1 (A)g(A)dA  f¯I                            g(A)dA.
 0                                  0                              0     1        p̃ f¯V
                     ¯V
Hence, p̃ = f¯Vf+f¯I . Proposition 11 shows that p̃ < p0 .

    Consider now p̄. Following the benchmark model, p̄ is defined as the p-
value such that, after exhausting the implementation of Procedure 1 for A 2
[0, A0 (p̄)], the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint evaluated at
the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation is satisfied as an equality,
where A0 (p̄) = 1 p̄ p̄ f¯V :
                               Z Ā
                                        Ag(A)dA + (1       ↵1 )⇥
                                   0

            Z A0 (p̄)                          Z Ā   ✓        ◆
                                                         A
       ⇥              0(A)C1 (A)g(A)dA +                          C1 (A)g(A)dA =
              0                               A0 (p̄) f¯V + A
                         Z A0 (p̄)                      Z Ā
                                     p̄   A
                  = f¯I                      g(A)dA   +           0g(A)dA .
                           0        1 p̄ f¯V              A0 (p̄)

Given that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint now in-
cludes a term in ↵1 , p̄(↵1 ). This p- hreshold is not the same as p̄ in the
benchmark model.


Proposition 11. Suppose C0 (A)             C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) >
C1 (0)(1 + ⇤) and p 2 (0, 1). There are three p-segments: p-Segment 1 where
p 2 (0, p̃], p-Segment 2.1 where p 2 (p̃, p̄], and p-Segment 2.2 where p 2 (p̄, 1).


Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Proposition 5 of
the benchmark model. ⌅


    Finally, consider threshold A2.1 (p). Following the benchmark model, in
p-Segment 2.1, adjustment Procedure 1 should be exhausted only for A 2
[0, A2.1 (p)], where A2.1 (p) corresponds to the A-threshold such that the liable

                                                116
injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint evaluated at the adjusted interim
probabilities of investigation holds as an equality:
                              Z Ā
                                     Ag(A)dA + (1    ↵1 )⇥
                                0

          Z A2.1 (p)                     Z Ā   ✓       ◆
                                                   A
     ⇥                  0C1 (A)g(A)dA +                    C1 (A)g(A)dA =
            0                          A2.1 (p) f¯V + A
                   Z A2.1 (p) ✓    ◆               Z Ā
                                  p   A
            = f¯I                        g(A)dA   +           0g(A)dA .
                     0           1 p f¯V             A2.1 (p)

Given that the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint now in-
cludes a term in ↵1 , A2.1 (p, ↵1 ). This A-threshold is not the same as A2.1 (p)
in the benchmark model.


Lemma 8. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0)(1 +
⇤) and p 2 (p̃, p̄]. There exists a unique 0  A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) < Ā.

Proof. The proof follows the same logic than the proof of Lemma 5 of the
benchmark model. ⌅
   The adjusted interim probabilities of investigation are summarized in the
main text of the paper, Corollary 1.

    Next, we verify whether the non-liable incentive-compatibility constraint
is still satisfied. At the adjusted interim probabilities of investigation, the
liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility constraint is satisfied as an equality.
Hence, the non-liable injurer incentive-compatibility constraint is still satis-
fied, by Claim 7.



Step 3: Analysis of Victim’s Individual-Rationality Con-
straint and Analysis of Victim’s Incentive-Compatibility
Constraint (Part 2)

Lemma 9. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A)(1 + ⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0 > C1 (0)(1 +
⇤) and p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The victim’s individual-rationality constraint is satisfied
under the interim probabilities of investigation presented in Step 2.

                                           117
Proof. For A 2 [0, A2.1 (p, ↵1 )], q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0. Then, the
victim’s individual rationality constraint is: ↵0 C0 (A)  f¯V . Remember that
f¯V = W V and W V > C0 (Ā) by assumption. Therefore, this constraint is
satisfied for A 2 [0, A2.1 (p, ↵1 )] and no further adjustment is required. For
A 2 (A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), Ā], q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1. Then, the victim’s
individual rationality constraint is: ↵1 C1 (A)  A + f¯V . Remember that
f¯V = W V , and by assumption, W V + A C1 (A) for A 2 [0, Ā]. Therefore,
this constraint is satisfied for A 2 (A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), Ā] and no further adjustment
is required. ⌅


   Lemma 10 shows that the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint that
can be expressed in terms of two constraints, the victim’s incentive-compatibility
constraint of the benchmark model and the victim’s individual-rationality
constraint. It also shows that the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint
holds when both constraints hold.

Lemma 10. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A)(1+⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0)(1+
⇤) and p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The victim’s incentive compatibility constraint is satisfied
under the interim probabilities of investigation presented in Step 2.

Proof. By Lemma 9, the victim’s individual rationality constraint is satis-
fied. By Step 1 and given that additional adjustments are not implemented
in Step 3, the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint of the benchmark
model is still satisfied. Hence, the victim’s incentive-compatibility constraint
is satisfied. ⌅.


Step 4: Verification and Further Adjustments
Given that no further adjustment was required in Step 3, the interim prob-
abilities of investigation found in Step 2 still satisfy the victim’s incentive-
compatibility constraint and the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility con-
straint. Hence, the interim probabilities of investigation presented in Step
2 still hold: For A 2 [0, A2.1 (p, ↵1 )], q0 (A) = 1 p p f¯AV and q1 (A) = 0; for
A 2 (A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), Ā], q0 (A) = 0 and q1 (A) = f¯VA+A < 1. A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) is de-
termined implicitly by the liable injurer’s incentive compatibility constraint
                        R Ā           R Ā
written as equality: 0 Ag(A)dA + A2.1 (p,↵1 ) (1 ↵1 ) f¯VA+A C1 (A)g(A)dA =
   R A2.1 (p,↵1 ) p A
f¯I 0             1 p f¯V g(A)dA. The interim probabilities of investigation in
this model correspond to the optimal probabilities of investigation of the
benchmark model. In contrast to the benchmark model, now the threshold
A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) also depends on ↵1 .
                                       118
Step 5: Optimal Cost Allocation and Optimal Produc-
tion of Evidence
We characterize the optimal ↵i (i = 0, 1) and then, evaluate A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) at
the optimal ↵1 to characterize the optimal production of evidence.
    The social planner problem is min↵0 2[0,1],↵1 2[0,1] {E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)]}.
To simplify notation, we denote E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)] as S, and use this no-
tation in the proofs of Claim 9 and Proposition 9.
    The next claim shows that E[C(A)] negatively depends on ↵1 and E[⇠(A)]
positively depends on ↵1 .

Claim 11. Suppose C0 (A) C1 (A)(1+⇤) 8A 2 (0, Ā], C0 (0) > C1 (0)(1+⇤)
and p 2 (p̃, p̄]. (1) @E[C(A)]
                        @↵1    < 0. (2) @⇤E[⇠(A)]
                                          @↵1     > 0.

Proof. Although A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), to simplify notation, we use A2.1 in the proof.
  1.                                            Z A2.1
                                                                p      A
                      E[C(A)] = (1         p)                             C0 (A)g(A)dA+
                                                    0       1       p f¯V
                                        Z Ā
                                          A
                                   +p          C1 (A)g(A) =
                                       A + f¯V
                                         A2.1
                   Z A2.1                      Z Ā
                            A                            A
               =p          ¯   C 0 (A)g(A)dA  +                C1 (A)g(A) .
                     0     f V
                                                 A 2.1 A + f¯V
       By the Chain Rule,
                                                @E[C(A)]
                                                         =
                                                  @↵1
                                                ⇣ A2.1 ⌘
                   A2.1                                                                      @A2.1
        =p              C0 (A2.1 )g(A2.1 )                              C1 (A2.1 )g(A2.1 )         ,
                   f¯V                                   A2.1 + f¯V                           @↵1
       where
                                               R Ā   A
            @A2.1                                         C (A)g(A)dA
                                                A2.1 A+f¯V 1
                  =                                                                            .
             @↵1                 A2.1 p ¯I                          A  2.1
                                 f¯V 1 p
                                         f + (1              ↵1 ) A2.1     C (A2.1 ) g(A2.1 )
                                                                       +f¯V 1

       @E[C(A)]
         @↵1    can be rewritten as:
                                                    
                         @E[C(A)]                       C0 (A2.1 )     C1 (A2.1 )
                                  =             p                                   ⇥
                           @↵1                             f¯V         A2.1 + f¯V
                                                    119
                                             R Ā   A
                                                        C (A)g(A)dA
                                              A2.1 A+f¯V 1
                             ⇥                                                              .
                                       1  p ¯I
                                     f¯V 1 p
                                             f + (1           ↵1 ) A2.11+f¯V C1 (A2.1 )

         The expression                 
                                            C0 (A2.1 )        C1 (A2.1 )
                                                                               >0
                                               f¯V            A2.1 + f¯V
         by C0 (A2.1 ) > C1 (A2.1 ) and f¯V < A2.1 + f¯V . Hence, @E[C(A)]
                                                                    @↵1    < 0.
    2.
                           Z Ā                                             Z Ā
                                                                                           A
         E[⇠(A)] = p                ↵1 q1 (A)C1 (A)g(A)dA = p                       ↵1           C1 (A)g(A)dA.
                            0                                                A2.1        A + f¯V

                                                       @⇤E[⇠(A)]
                                                                 =
                                                         @↵1
                "Z                                                                                   #
                      Ā
                             A                                       A2.1                     @A 2.1
         = ⇤p                      C1 (A)g(A)dA                  ↵1 2.1 ¯V C1 (A2.1 )g(A2.1 )          ,
                     A 2.1 A + f¯V                                 A +f                        @↵1
         where
                                                R Ā      A
            @A2.1                                             C (A)g(A)dA
                                                    A2.1 A+f¯V 1
                  =                                                                                < 0.
             @↵1                    A2.1 p ¯I                     A   2.1
                                    f¯V 1 p
                                            f + (1         ↵1 ) A2.1     C (A2.1 ) g(A2.1 )
                                                                     +f¯V 1


         Hence, @⇤E[⇠(A)]
                  @↵1     > 0.

⌅


   Proposition 12, included in the main text of the paper, characterizes
the optimal cost allocation (↵0 , ↵1 ). The proof is included in Appendix A.
The optimal production of evidence is characterized by simply evaluating
A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) and p̄(↵1 ) at the optimal ↵1 .




                                                        120
D. Model with Endogenous Cost Allocation –
Uniform Distribution Model and Numerical Ex-
ample
This Appendix presents the model with a uniform distribution of damages
(Section D.1) and the numerical example (Section D.2) for the model with
endogenous cost allocation. We focus on Environment 1 and p-Segment 2.1
where p 2 (p̃, p̄].


D.1 Model with a Uniform Distribution of Damages
Assume that A is uniformly distributed over A 2 [0, Ā], where g(A) = Ā1
                             R Ā
8A 2 [0, Ā], G(A) = A
                     Ā
                        , and 0 Ag(A)dA = Ā2 .



Thresholds p̄ and A2.1 .– In contrast to the benchmark model, closed-form
solutions for p̄(↵1 ) and A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) cannot be obtained.

   Consider p̄. When p = p̄, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint is:
Z Ā                    Z Ā                                Z (1 p̄) f¯V
          1                           A C1 (A)     ¯I
                                                                 p̄            p̄A    1
         A dA+(1 ↵1 )                   ¯V Ā dA = f                               ¯V
                                                                                        dA,
 0        Ā              (1 p̄)f¯V A + f
                             p̄                                 0           (1 p̄)f Ā

where A0 (p̄) = (1 p̄A
                    p̄)f¯V
                           . The last equation implicitly defines p̄(↵1 ) and
cannot be solved analytically.


   Next, consider A2.1 (p). Suppose p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is:
 Z Ā                         Z Ā                         Z A2.1
          A                            A C1 (A)                            pA     1
             dA + (1   ↵1 )              ¯      dA = f¯I                             dA.
     0    Ā                   A 2.1 A + f V Ā             0       (1      p)f¯V Ā

The last equation implicitly defines A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) and cannot be solved analyt-
ically.

                                          121
Social Welfare Loss Function.– Given the optimal mechanism and the
assumptions regarding the uniform distribution of damages, the social wel-
fare loss function for p-Segment 2.1 is as follows.

                     SW L2.1 = H(A) + E[C(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)],
                           R Ā
where H(A) = E[A] =          0
                                  Ag(A)dA,
                    Z A2.1                              Z Ā
                                pA   C0 (A)                       A C1 (A)
      E[C(A)] =                             dA +                           dA
                      0      (1 p)f¯V Ā                 A2.1   A + f¯V Ā
and                                  Z Ā
                                                    A C1 (A)
                      E[⇠(A)] = p            ↵1              dA.
                                      A2.1        A + f¯V Ā

D.2 Numerical Example
The model with a uniform distribution of damages is used to construct this
numerical example. Although A2.1 (p, ↵1 ), we use A2.1 to simplify notation.

    Assume C0 (A) = C0 (A)+c0 A and C1 (A) = C1 +c1 A. We use the same set
of exogenous parameters used for Environment 1 in the numerical example
for the benchmark model
 {C0 , C1 , c0 , c1 , f¯V , f¯I , Ā, p} = {1528, 690, 0.3, 0.01, 1800, 3600, 1200, 0.45}.
In addition, we use three ⇤-values: ⇤ 2 {0.30, 0.40, 0.50}. For the three
⇤-values, Ā = 1200. Hence, H = Ā2 = 600.


Main Model Conditions.– The model conditions are satisfied under the
sets of exogenous parameters.
   • The condition for Environment 1 is C0 (A)                 (1 + ⇤)C1 (A) 8A 2 [0, Ā].
        1. ⇤ = 0.30: 1528 + 0.3A (1 + 0.30)(690 + 0.01A). After simplifi-
           cation, 0.29A > 631 holds 8A 2 [0, 1200].
        2. ⇤ = 0.40: 1528 + 0.3A (1 + 0.40)(690 + 0.01A). After simplifi-
           cation, 0.29A > 562 holds 8A 2 [0, 1200].
        3. ⇤ = 0.50: 1528 + 0.3A (1 + 0.50)(690 + 0.01A). After simplifi-
           cation, 0.29A > 493 holds 8A 2 [0, 1200].
   • The condition for Lemma 9 and first condition for Propositions 9 and
     10 is C0 (0) > C1 (0)(1 + ⇤).
                                             122
       1. ⇤ = 0.30: 1528 > 690(1 + 0.30). After simplification, 1528 > 897.
       2. ⇤ = 0.30: 1528 > 690(1 + 0.40). After simplification, 1528 > 966.
       3. ⇤ = 0.30: 1528 > 690(1+0.50). After simplification, 1528 > 1035.


                                                                     C1 (A)
                                                                 @
   • The second condition for Proposition 9 is C@A0 (A)
                                                         0 8A 2 [0, Ā].
     Given that this condition does not include ⇤, it is the same across
     ⇤-values.
     @C 1 +c1 A
      C0 +c0 A        c1 C0 c0 C1    0.01(1528) 0.3(690)        191.72
                  =                =                     =                <0
        @A            (C0 + c0 A)2      (1528 + 0.3A)2     (1528 + 0.3A)2

     8A 2 [0, 1200].
                                                 0 (A)
   • The third condition for Proposition 9 is @C@A     > 0 8A 2 [0, Ā]. Given
     that this condition does not include ⇤, it is the same across ⇤-values:
     c0 = 0.3 > 0 8A 2 [0, 1200].
                                                                              ¯V
   • The second condition for Proposition 10 is C0 (A) C0 (0) < CA+  1 (A)f
                                                                         f¯V
                                                                             .
     Given that this condition does not include ⇤, it is the same across
     ⇤-values. The left-hand side of the inequality is C0 (A) C0 (0) =
     c0 A = 0.3A. The right-hand side of the inequality is (690+0.01A)(1800)
                                                                A+1800       .
     Evaluate the left-hand side at the highest A-value, the numerator of
     the right-hand side at the lowest A-value and the denominator of the
     right-hand side at the highest A-value. After simplification, 360 <
     414 = (690)(1800)
               3000    8A 2 [0, 1200].



Thresholds p̄ and A2.1 .– p̄(↵1 ) and A2.1 (p, ↵1 ) cannot be analytically
computed.

   Consider p̄. When p = p̄, the liable injurer’s incentive-compatibility
constraint is:
         Z Ā                 Z Ā
                1                          A                1
               A dA + (1 ↵1 )                ¯ V
                                                 (C1 + c1 A) dA =
          0     Ā             (1 p̄)f¯V A + f
                                   p̄
                                                            Ā

                                 Z (1 p̄) f¯V
                                      p̄              p̄A      1
                         = f¯I                                    dA.
                                  0              (1     p̄)f¯V Ā
                                                123
After computing the integrals,
         Ā (1 ↵1 ) h c1 2
           +            (Ā          (A0 (p̄))2 ) + (C1       c1 f¯V )(Ā   A0 (p̄))
         2    Ā      2
                                                                i      A0 (p̄)
        (C1   c1 f¯V )f¯V (log(Ā + f¯V )   log(A0 (p̄) + f¯V )) = f¯I         ,       (1D)
                                                                        2Ā
                         ¯V
where A0 (p̄) = (1 p̄)
                   p̄
                       f
                         . Equation (1D) implicitly defines p̄. Using the set of
exogenous parameters, it can be solved numerically.


   Next, consider A2.1 (p). Suppose p 2 (p̃, p̄]. The liable injurer’s incentive-
compatibility constraint is:
Z Ā                   Z Ā                                        Z A2.1
       A                       A               1                               pA    1
          dA+(1 ↵1 )             ¯ V
                                     (C1 +c1 A) dA = f¯I                          ¯V
                                                                                       dA.
 0     Ā               A2.1 A + f             Ā                   0       (1 p)f Ā


     After computing the integrals:
Ā 1 ↵1 h c1 2
  +         (Ā (A2.1 )2 )+(C1 c1 f¯V )(Ā A2.1 ) (C1 c1 f¯V )f¯V (log(Ā+f¯V )
2   Ā    2
                                   i      f¯I p(A2.1 )2
                  log(A2.1 + f¯V )) =                   .              (2D)
                                        2(1 p)f¯V Ā
Equation (2D) implicitly defines A2.1 (p, ↵1 ). Using the set of exogenous
parameters, it can be solved numerically.


Optimal Cost-Allocation Rules.– In this numerical example,

                               C1 (A)f¯V (C0 (A) + 1 p p f¯I )
                        µ=                                     +
                              (A + f¯V )f¯V (C0 (A) + p f¯I )
                                                          1 p

              (A + f¯V )2 C00 (A) 1 p p f¯I + (A + f¯V )f¯V C00 (A)C1 (A)
                                                                          .
                          (A + f¯V )f¯V (C0 (A) + p f¯I )
                                                        1 p

Therefore, 8A 2 [0, Ā],

                        C1 (A)f¯V (C0 (A) + 1 p p f¯I ) C1 (A)
                 µ>         ¯    ¯              p ¯I =          .
                             V    V
                       (A + f )f (C0 (A) +          f )
                                                  1 p   A + f¯V
                                            124
After simplification,
                                    C1 (A)
                                            < µ.
                                    A + f¯V
Evaluate the numerator of the right-hand side of the inequality at the lowest
A-value and the denominator of the right-hand side of the inequality at the
                 C1 (0)      690
highest A-value: Ā+f¯V
                        = 1200+1800 = 0.23.

               @C1 (A)                   C1 (0)    C1 (A)
                       = 0.01 < 0.253 =          <         < µ.
                 @A                     Ā + f¯V   A + f¯V
              1 (A)
Therefore, @C@A                                                 1 (A)
                    = 0.01 < 0.23 < µ 8A 2 [0, 1200]. Hence, @C@A     < µ
8A 2 [0, 1200].

   In this numerical example,

                 (A2.1 (↵1 ) + f¯V )(C0 + cA2.1 (↵1 )) f¯V (C1 + c1 A2.1 (↵1 ))
    ⇤0 (↵1 ) =                                                                  .
                       (A2.1 (↵1 ) + f¯V ) 1 p p f¯I + f¯V (C1 + c1 A2.1 (↵1 ))
                                                  0
                  1 (A)
    Given that @C@A     < µ 8A 2 [0, 1200], @⇤@↵(↵1 1 ) < 0. Hence, ⇤0 = ⇤0 (↵1 =
       ¯ 0 = ⇤0 (↵1 = 0):
1) and ⇤

           (A2.1 (1) + f¯V )(C0 + cA2.1 (1)) f¯V (C1 + c1 A2.1 (1))
    ⇤0 =                                                             = 0.396.
                (A2.1 (1) + f¯V ) 1 p p f¯I + f¯V (C1 + c1 A2.1 (1))

          (A   2.1
                  (0) + f¯V )(C0 + cA2.1 (0)) f¯V (C1 + c1 A2.1 (0))
    ⇤¯0 =                                                             = 0.402.
                 (A2.1 (0) + f¯V ) 1 p p f¯I + f¯V (C1 + c1 A2.1 (0))


    The ⇤-values that apply for Cases 1, 2, and 3(b)iii of Proposition 11 are
⇤ 2 {0.30, 0.40, 0.50}, respectively. The conditions for the three cases are
satisfied.
   • The condition for Proposition 11, Case 1 is ⇤ < ⇤0 . It applies to Set
     1 where ⇤ = 0.30 (Column 2 of Table 4). ⇤ = 0.30 < 0.396 = ⇤0 .
                                                                1 (A)
   • The first condition for Proposition 11, Case 3(b)iii is @C@A     < µ 8A 2
     [0, Ā]. It applies to Set 1 where ⇤ = 0.40 (Column 3 of Table 5).
     As showed before, across ⇤-values, @C@A 1 (A)
                                                   = 0.01 < 0.253 < µ 8A 2
     [0, 1200].

                                         125
                                                                        ¯ 0 ).
   • The second condition for Proposition 11, Case 3(b)iii is ⇤ 2 (⇤0 , ⇤
     It applies to Set 2 where ⇤ = 0.40 (Column 3 of Table 5). ⇤ = 0.40 2
                            ¯ 0 ).
     (0.396, 0.402) = (⇤0 , ⇤
                                                     ¯ 0 . It applies to Set
   • The condition for Proposition 11, Case 2 is ⇤ > ⇤
     3 where ⇤ = 0.50 (Column 4 of Table 4). ⇤ = 0.50 > 0.402 = ⇤   ¯ 0.



Social Welfare Loss Function.– Given the optimal mechanisms and the
functional forms for C0 (A) and C1 (A), SW L2.1 is as follows.

              SW L2.1 = H + E[C(A)] + ✓E[⌘(A)] + ⇤E[⇠(A)],

where H = 600, ✓E[⌘(A)] = ✓(0) = 0 because all victims get access to justice
under the optimal mechanism,
            Z A2.1                                   Z Ā
                       pA                     1                A               1
E[C(A)] =                  ¯ V
                                (C 0 +c 0 A)    dA+               ¯V
                                                                     (C1 +c1 A) dA =
             0     (1   p) f                 Ā       A 2.1  A + f             Ā
                                     
                           p           c0 (A2.1 )3    C0 (A2.1 )2
                  =           ¯ V
                                                   +                +
                     (1 p)f Ā              3               2
                1 ⇥ c1 2
              +       (Ā      (A2.1 )2 ) + (C1 c1 f¯V )(Ā A2.1 )
                Ā 2
                                                                        ⇤
               (C1 c1 f¯V )f¯V (log(Ā + f¯V ) log(A2.1 + f¯V ))
and
                     ↵1 h c1 2
        E[⇠(A)] =           (Ā    (A2.1 )2 ) + (C1    c1 f¯V )(Ā  A2.1 )
                     Ā 2
                                                                     i
               (C1    c1 f¯V )f¯V (log(Ā + f¯V )   log(A2.1 + f¯V )) .

Using the set of exogenous parameters, the A2.1 (p, ↵1 )-values and the optimal
↵1 for each ⇤-values, the optimal SW L2.1 for each ⇤-value is computed.




                                        126
Ландео К. М., Никитин М., Измалков С.
      Оптимальный дизайн гражданско-правовой системы [Электронный ресурс]:
препринт WP9/2024/02 / К. М. Ландео, М. Никитин, С. Измалков; Нац. исслед. ун-т
«Высшая школа экономики». – Электрон. текст. дан. (700 Кб). – М.: Изд. дом Высшей
школы экономики, 2024. – 128 с. (На англ. яз.)


       Мы изучаем оптимальный дизайн гражданско-правовой системы в условиях
двусторонней асимметрии информации. Используя методологию дизайна
механизмов, мы идентифицируем черты, которые должны присутствовать в
оптимальной гражданско-правовой системе, чтобы обеспечить доступ к правосудию
и максимальную компенсацию потерпевших с минимальными затратами на
получение доказательств. Мы демонстрируем, что полное выявление частной
информации требует получения доказательств только в части гражданско-правовых
споров. «Американское правило» появляется эндогенно в качестве оптимального
правила распределения судебных издержек только при определенных условиях. Мы
демонстрируем возможность судебной реформы, которая реализовывает
оптимальный механизм в реальных условиях.




      Ландео Клаудия М.* – Университет Альберты, факультет экономики; Канада,
AB T6G 2H4, Эдмонтон, здание Генри Маршалла Тори 7-25; landeo@ualberta.ca
      Никитин Максим – Международный институт экономики и финансов НИУ
ВШЭ; Россия, Москва, Покровский бульвар, 11; mnikitin@hse.ru
      Измалков Сергей – Российская экономическая школа; Россия, Москва,
Сколково, ул. Нобеля, 3; sizmalkov@nes.ru



       *Мы благодарим Эмилиано Катонини, Татьяну Майскую, Пейо Зуазо-Гарина и Джека
Окса за содержательные обсуждения и комментарии. Мы благодарны за предложения от
участников Фестиваля 2024 в Центре теории игр Стоуни-Брук и семинара по
микроэкономической теории НИУ ВШЭ.
            Препринт WP9/2024/02
                  Серия WP9
     Исследования по экономике и финансам




    Ландео К.М., Никитин М., Измалков С.

Оптимальный дизайн гражданско-правовой системы

             (на английском языке)




       Публикуется в авторской редакции




                 Изд. № 2947
